
# Construction of Simplicial Complexes with Prescribed Degree-Size Sequences

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0185), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0185.pdf)

## Authors

- Tzu-Chi Yen

## Abstract

We study the realizability of simplicial complexes with a given pair of integer sequences, representing the node degree distribution and facet size distribution, respectively. While the $s$-uniform variant of the problem is $\mathsf{NP}$-complete when $s \geq 3$, we identify two populations of input sequences, most of which can be solved in polynomial time using a recursive algorithm that we contribute. Combining with a sampler for the simplicial configuration model [Young $\textit{et al.}$, Phys. Rev. E $\textbf{96}$, 032312 (2017)], we facilitate efficient sampling of simplicial ensembles from arbitrary degree and size distributions. We find that, contrary to expectations based on dyadic networks, increasing nodes' degrees reduces the number of loops in simplicial complexes. Our work unveils a fundamental constraint on the degree-size sequences and sheds light on further analysis of higher-order phenomena based on local structures.

## Comments

6 pages, 4 figures. Code implementing our methods is available at this https URL (Python, pip installable). Read the Docs at this https URL

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{yen2021construction,
      title={Construction of Simplicial Complexes with Prescribed Degree-Size Sequences}, 
      author={Tzu-Chi Yen},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00185},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.SI}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

