
# New Candidate Extreme T Subdwarfs from the Backyard Worlds: Planet 9 Citizen Science Project

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01387), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01387.pdf)

## Authors

- Aaron M. Meisner
- Adam C. Schneider
- Adam J. Burgasser
- Federico Marocco
- Michael R. Line
- Jacqueline K. Faherty
- J. Davy Kirkpatrick
- Dan Caselden
- Marc J. Kuchner
- Christopher R. Gelino
- Jonathan Gagne
- Christopher Theissen
- Roman Gerasimov
- Christian Aganze
- Chih-Chun Hsu
- John P. Wisniewski
- Sarah L. Casewell
- Daniella C. Bardalez Gagliuffi
- Sarah E. Logsdon
- Peter R. M. Eisenhardt
- Katelyn Allers
- John H. Debes
- Michaela B. Allen
- Nikolaj Stevnbak Andersen
- Sam Goodman
- Leopold Gramaize
- David W. Martin
- Arttu Sainio
- Michael C. Cushing
- , The
- Backyard Worlds
- :
- Planet 9 Collaboration

## Abstract

Schneider et al. (2020) presented the discovery of WISEA J041451.67-585456.7 and WISEA J181006.18-101000.5, which appear to be the first examples of extreme T-type subdwarfs (esdTs; metallicity <= -1 dex, T_eff <= 1400 K). Here we present new discoveries and follow-up of three T-type subdwarf candidates, with an eye toward expanding the sample of such objects with very low metallicity and extraordinarily high kinematics, properties that suggest membership in the Galactic halo. Keck/NIRES near-infrared spectroscopy of WISEA J155349.96+693355.2, a fast-moving object discovered by the Backyard Worlds: Planet 9 citizen science project, confirms that it is a mid-T subdwarf. With H_W2 = 22.3 mag, WISEA J155349.96+693355.2 has the largest W2 reduced proper motion among all spectroscopically confirmed L and T subdwarfs, suggesting that it may be kinematically extreme. Nevertheless, our modeling of the WISEA J155349.96+693355.2 near-infrared spectrum indicates that its metallicity is only mildly subsolar. In analyzing the J155349.96+693355.2 spectrum, we present a new grid of low-temperature, low-metallicity model atmosphere spectra. We also present the discoveries of two new esdT candidates, CWISE J073844.52-664334.6 and CWISE J221706.28-145437.6, based on their large motions and colors similar to those of the two known esdT objects. Finding more esdT examples is a critical step toward mapping out the spectral sequence and observational properties of this newly identified population.

## Comments

accepted for publication in ApJ; models available at this https URL

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/new-candidate-extreme-t-subdwarfs-from-the](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/new-candidate-extreme-t-subdwarfs-from-the)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{meisner2021new,
      title={New Candidate Extreme T Subdwarfs from the Backyard Worlds: Planet 9 Citizen Science Project}, 
      author={Aaron M. Meisner and Adam C. Schneider and Adam J. Burgasser and Federico Marocco and Michael R. Line and Jacqueline K. Faherty and J. Davy Kirkpatrick and Dan Caselden and Marc J. Kuchner and Christopher R. Gelino and Jonathan Gagne and Christopher Theissen and Roman Gerasimov and Christian Aganze and Chih-Chun Hsu and John P. Wisniewski and Sarah L. Casewell and Daniella C. Bardalez Gagliuffi and Sarah E. Logsdon and Peter R. M. Eisenhardt and Katelyn Allers and John H. Debes and Michaela B. Allen and Nikolaj Stevnbak Andersen and Sam Goodman and Leopold Gramaize and David W. Martin and Arttu Sainio and Michael C. Cushing and The Backyard Worlds and : and Planet 9 Collaboration},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01387},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.SR}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

