
# Parameter-Efficient Neural Question Answering Models via Graph-Enriched Document Representations

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0851), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0851.pdf)

## Authors

- Louis Castricato
- Stephen Fitz
- Won Young Shin

## Abstract

As the computational footprint of modern NLP systems grows, it becomes increasingly important to arrive at more efficient models. We show that by employing graph convolutional document representation, we can arrive at a question answering system that performs comparably to, and in some cases exceeds the SOTA solutions, while using less than 5\% of their resources in terms of trainable parameters. As it currently stands, a major issue in applying GCNs to NLP is document representation. In this paper, we show that a GCN enriched document representation greatly improves the results seen in HotPotQA, even when using a trivial topology. Our model (gQA), performs admirably when compared to the current SOTA, and requires little to no preprocessing. In Shao et al. 2020, the authors suggest that graph networks are not necessary for good performance in multi-hop QA. In this paper, we suggest that large language models are not necessary for good performance by showing a naïve implementation of a GCN performs comparably to SoTA models based on pretrained language models.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{castricato2021parameterefficient,
      title={Parameter-Efficient Neural Question Answering Models via Graph-Enriched Document Representations}, 
      author={Louis Castricato and Stephen Fitz and Won Young Shin},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00851},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

