
# Cybersecurity Information Exchange with Privacy (CYBEX-P) and TAHOE -- A Cyberthreat Language

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01632), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01632.pdf)

## Authors

- Farhan Sadique
- Ignacio Astaburuaga
- Raghav Kaul
- Shamik Sengupta
- Shahriar Badsha
- James Schnebly
- Adam Cassell
- Jeff Springer
- Nancy Latourrette
- Sergiu M. Dascalu

## Abstract

Cybersecurity information sharing (CIS) is envisioned to protect organizations more effectively from advanced cyber attacks. However, a completely automated CIS platform is not widely adopted. The major challenges are: (1) the absence of a robust cyber threat language (CTL) and (2) the concerns over data privacy. This work introduces Cybersecurity Information Exchangewith Privacy (CYBEX-P), as a CIS framework, to tackle these challenges. CYBEX-P allows organizations to share heterogeneous data with granular, attribute based privacy control. It correlates the data to automatically generate intuitive reports and defensive rules. To achieve such versatility, we have developed TAHOE - a graph based CTL. TAHOE is a structure for storing,sharing and analyzing threat data. It also intrinsically correlates the data. We have further developed a universal Threat Data Query Language (TDQL). In this paper, we propose the system architecture for CYBEX-P. We then discuss its scalability and privacy features along with a use case of CYBEX-P providing Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). We further introduce TAHOE& TDQL as better alternatives to existing CTLs and formulate ThreatRank - an algorithm to detect new malicious even

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/cybersecurity-information-exchange-with](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/cybersecurity-information-exchange-with)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sadique2021cybersecurity,
      title={Cybersecurity Information Exchange with Privacy (CYBEX-P) and TAHOE -- A Cyberthreat Language}, 
      author={Farhan Sadique and Ignacio Astaburuaga and Raghav Kaul and Shamik Sengupta and Shahriar Badsha and James Schnebly and Adam Cassell and Jeff Springer and Nancy Latourrette and Sergiu M. Dascalu},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01632},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CR}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

