
# The solar-wind angular-momentum flux observed during Solar Orbiter's first orbit

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01780), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01780.pdf)

## Authors

- Daniel Verscharen
- David Stansby
- Adam J. Finley
- Christopher J. Owen
- Timothy Horbury
- Milan Maksimovic
- Marco Velli
- Stuart D. Bale
- Philippe Louarn
- Andrei Fedorov
- Roberto Bruno
- Stefano Livi
- Yuri V. Khotyaintsev
- Antonio Vecchio
- Gethyn R. Lewis
- Chandrasekhar Anekallu
- Christopher W. Kelly
- Gillian Watson
- Dhiren O. Kataria
- Helen O'Brien
- Vincent Evans
- Virginia Angelini

## Abstract

Aims: We present the first measurements of the solar-wind angular-momentum (AM) flux recorded by the Solar Orbiter spacecraft. Our aim is the validation of these measurements to support future studies of the Sun's AM loss. Methods: We combine 60-minute averages of the proton bulk moments and the magnetic field measured by the Solar Wind Analyser (SWA) and the magnetometer (MAG) onboard Solar Orbiter. We calculate the AM flux per solid-angle element using data from the first orbit of the mission's cruise phase during 2020. We separate the contributions from protons and from magnetic stresses to the total AM flux. Results: The AM flux varies significantly over time. The particle contribution typically dominates over the magnetic-field contribution during our measurement interval. The total AM flux shows the largest variation and is typically anti-correlated with the radial solar-wind speed. We identify a compression region, potentially associated with a co-rotating interaction region or a coronal mass ejection, that leads to a significant localised increase in the AM flux, yet without a significant increase in the AM per unit mass. We repeat our analysis using the density estimate from the Radio and Plasma Waves (RPW) instrument. Using this independent method, we find a decrease in the peaks of positive AM flux but otherwise consistent results. Conclusions: Our results largely agree with previous measurements of the solar-wind AM flux in terms of amplitude, variability, and dependence on radial solar-wind bulk speed. Our analysis highlights the potential for future, more detailed, studies of the solar wind's AM and its other large-scale properties with data from Solar Orbiter. We emphasise the need to study the radial evolution and latitudinal dependence of the AM flux in combination with data from Parker Solar Probe and assets at heliocentric distances of 1 au and beyond.

## Comments

10 pages, 9 figures. Accepted for publication in A&A

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/the-solar-wind-angular-momentum-flux-observed](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/the-solar-wind-angular-momentum-flux-observed)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{verscharen2021solarwind,
      title={The solar-wind angular-momentum flux observed during Solar Orbiter's first orbit}, 
      author={Daniel Verscharen and David Stansby and Adam J. Finley and Christopher J. Owen and Timothy Horbury and Milan Maksimovic and Marco Velli and Stuart D. Bale and Philippe Louarn and Andrei Fedorov and Roberto Bruno and Stefano Livi and Yuri V. Khotyaintsev and Antonio Vecchio and Gethyn R. Lewis and Chandrasekhar Anekallu and Christopher W. Kelly and Gillian Watson and Dhiren O. Kataria and Helen O'Brien and Vincent Evans and Virginia Angelini},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01780},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={physics.space-ph}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

