
# Testing whether a signal is strictly periodic. Application to disentangling planets and stellar activity in radial velocities

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01365), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01365.pdf)

## Authors

- Nathan C. Hara
- Jean-Baptiste Delisle
- Nicolas Unger
- Xavier Dumusque

## Abstract

Searches for periodicity in time series are often done with models of periodic signals, whose statistical significance is assessed via false alarm probabilities or Bayes factors. However, a statistically significant periodic model might not originate from a strictly periodic source. In astronomy in particular, one expects transient signals that show periodicity for a certain amount of time before vanishing. This situation is encountered for instance in the search for planets in radial velocity data. While planetary signals are expected to have a stable phase, amplitude and frequency - except when strong planet-planet interactions are present - signals induced by stellar activity will typically not exhibit the same stability. In the present article, we explore the use of periodic functions multiplied by time windows to diagnose whether an apparently periodic signal is truly so. We suggest diagnostics to check whether a signal is consistently present in the time series, and has a stable phase, amplitude and period. The tests are expressed both in a periodogram and Bayesian framework. Our methods are applied to the Solar HARPS-N data as well as HD 215152, HD 69830 and HD 13808. We find that (i) the HARPS-N Solar data exhibits signals at the Solar rotation period and its first harmonic ($\sim$ 13.4 days). The frequency and phase of the 13.4 days signal appear constant within the estimation uncertainties, but its amplitude presents significant variations which can be mapped to activity levels. (ii) as previously reported, we find four, three and two planets orbiting HD 215152, HD 69830 and HD 13808.

## Comments

Accepted for publication in Astronomy & Astrophysics

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/testing-whether-a-signal-is-strictly-periodic](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/testing-whether-a-signal-is-strictly-periodic)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{hara2021testing,
      title={Testing whether a signal is strictly periodic. Application to disentangling planets and stellar activity in radial velocities}, 
      author={Nathan C. Hara and Jean-Baptiste Delisle and Nicolas Unger and Xavier Dumusque},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01365},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.EP}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

