
# Dynamical and thermal properties of the parsec-scale gases spherically accreted onto low luminous active galactic nuclei

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01640), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01640.pdf)

## Authors

- Han-Wen Sun
- (CQU),
- Xiao-Hong Yang
- (CQU)

## Abstract

We analytically study the dynamical and thermal properties of the optically-thin gases at the parsec-scale when they are spherically accreted onto low luminous active galactic nuclei (LLAGNs). The falling gases are irradiated by the central X-ray radiation with the Compton temperature of 5--15$\times10^7$ K. The radiative heating/cooling and the bulge stellar potential in galaxies are taken into account. We analyze the effect of accretion rate, luminosity, gas temperature, and Compton temperature on steady solutions of dynamical and thermal properties. The steady solutions are obviously different from Bondi solution. Compared to our models, the Bondi model underestimates the accretion rate. We give the boundary between thermal stability and instability. The boundary is significantly affected by Compton temperature. When Compton temperature is higher, the falling gases easily thermally unstable. When thermal instability takes place in the irradiated gases, the gases become two phases (i.e. hot gases and cool gases) and the hot gases may become outflows. This effect may reduce the accretion rates.

## Comments

13 pages, 13 figures, accepted for publication in MNRAS

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/dynamical-and-thermal-properties-of-the](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/dynamical-and-thermal-properties-of-the)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sun2021dynamical,
      title={Dynamical and thermal properties of the parsec-scale gases spherically accreted onto low luminous active galactic nuclei}, 
      author={Han-Wen Sun and Xiao-Hong Yang},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01640},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.HE}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

