
# Observability of the Vertical Shear Instability in protoplanetary disk CO kinematics

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01159), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01159.pdf)

## Authors

- Marcelo Barraza-Alfaro
- Mario Flock
- Sebastian Marino
- Sebastián Pérez

## Abstract

Context. Dynamical and turbulent motions of gas in a protoplanetary disk are crucial for their evolution and affect planet formation. Recent observations suggest weak turbulence in the disk's outer regions. However, the physical mechanism of turbulence in these outer regions remains uncertain. The vertical shear instability (VSI) is a promising mechanism to produce turbulence in disks. Aims. Our aim is to study the observability of the gas velocity structure produced by the VSI via CO kinematics with ALMA. Methods. We perform global 3D hydrodynamical simulations of a VSI-unstable disk. We post-process the simulation results with radiative transfer calculations, and produce synthetic predictions of CO rotational emission lines. Following, we compute the line of sight velocity map, and its deviations from a sub-Keplerian equilibrium solution. We explore the detectability of the VSI by identifying kinematic signatures using realistic simulated observations. Results. Our 3D simulations of the VSI show the steady state dynamics of the gas in great detail. From the velocity structure we infer a turbulent stress value of $\alpha_{r\phi}=1.4 \times 10^{-4}$. On large scales, we observe velocity deviations of 50 m s$^{-1}$ as axisymmetric rings. We find optimal conditions at $i \lesssim 20^{\circ}$ to trace for the kinematic structures of the VSI. We found that current diagnostics to constrain gas turbulence from non-thermal broadening of the line emission are not applicable to anisotropic VSI turbulence. Conclusions. The detection of kinematic signatures produced by the VSI is possible with ALMA. Observations including an extended antenna configuration combined with the highest spectral resolution available are needed for robust detection. The characterization of the large-scale velocity perturbations is required to constrain the turbulence level produced by the VSI from gas observations.

## Comments

Accepted for publication in A&A. 17 pages with 10 figures and 1 table

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/observability-of-the-vertical-shear](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/observability-of-the-vertical-shear)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{barrazaalfaro2021observability,
      title={Observability of the Vertical Shear Instability in protoplanetary disk CO kinematics}, 
      author={Marcelo Barraza-Alfaro and Mario Flock and Sebastian Marino and Sebastián Pérez},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01159},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.EP}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

