
# A Schottky-Diode-Based Wake-Up Receiver for IoT Applications

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0140), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0140.pdf)

## Authors

- Mahmoud Elhebeary
- Samer Hanna
- Sudhakar Pamarti
- Danijela Cabric
- Chih-Kong Ken Yang

## Abstract

This paper presents an always-on low-power wake-up receiver (WuRx) that activates the remainder of the system when a wake-up signal is detected. The proposed receiver has two phases of waking up. The first phase uses an integrated CMOS Schottky diodes to detect the signal power at a low bias current. The approach dissipates low quiescent power and allows the reuse of the design in multiple frequency bands with only modifying the matching network. In the second phase, a data-locked startable oscillator is proposed to correlate the received data with a target signature. This design eliminates the area and power dissipation of an external crystal oscillator and only turns on when the second phase is activated. By correlating to a target signature, the second phase also reduces the probability of a false alarm (PFA) that would otherwise wake up the high-power bulk of the system. The two-phase approach leads to significant reduction in average power consumption when compared to a single-phase design. This implementation targets sub-ms wake-up latency and operates in the unlicensed band at a 750-MHz carrier frequency with a data rate of 200 kbps. The design achieves $\sim$8.45pJ/bit and $<$-50 dBm of input sensitivity and average power of 1.69$\mu$W. The system is implemented in 65-nm CMOS technology and occupies an area of 1mm$\times$0.75mm.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{elhebeary2021schottkydiodebased,
      title={A Schottky-Diode-Based Wake-Up Receiver for IoT Applications}, 
      author={Mahmoud Elhebeary and Samer Hanna and Sudhakar Pamarti and Danijela Cabric and Chih-Kong Ken Yang},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00140},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.SP}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

