
# A weighted unified informetrics based on Scopus and WoS

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01232), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01232.pdf)

## Authors

- Parul Khurana
- Geetha Ganesan
- Gulshan Kumar
- Kiran Sharma

## Abstract

Numerous indexing databases keep track of the number of publications, citations, etc. in order to maintain the progress of science and individual. However, the choice of journals and articles varies among these indexing databases, hence the number of citations and h-index varies. There is no common platform exists that can provide a single count for the number of publications, citations, h-index, etc. To overcome this limitation, we have proposed a weighted unified informetrics, named "conflate". The proposed system takes into account the input from multiple indexing databases and generates a single output. Here, we have used the data from Scopus and WoS to generate a conflate dataset. Further, a comparative analysis of conflate has been performed with Scopus and WoS at three levels: author, organization, and journal. Finally, a mapping is proposed between research publications and distributed ledger technology in order to provide a transparent and distributed view to its stakeholders.

## Comments

22 pages, 8 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/a-weighted-unified-informetrics-based-on](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/a-weighted-unified-informetrics-based-on)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{khurana2021weighted,
      title={A weighted unified informetrics based on Scopus and WoS}, 
      author={Parul Khurana and Geetha Ganesan and Gulshan Kumar and Kiran Sharma},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01232},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.DL}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

