
# Assembly Planning by Recognizing a Graphical Instruction Manual

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0424), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0424.pdf)

## Authors

- Issei Sera
- Natsuki Yamanobe
- Ixchel G. Ramirez-Alpizar
- Zhenting Wang
- Weiwei Wan
- Kensuke Harada

## Abstract

This paper proposes a robot assembly planning method by automatically reading the graphical instruction manuals design for humans. Essentially, the method generates an Assembly Task Sequence Graph (ATSG) by recognizing a graphical instruction manual. An ATSG is a graph describing the assembly task procedure by detecting types of parts included in the instruction images, completing the missing information automatically, and correcting the detection errors automatically. To build an ATSG, the proposed method first extracts the information of the parts contained in each image of the graphical instruction manual. Then, by using the extracted part information, it estimates the proper work motions and tools for the assembly task. After that, the method builds an ATSG by considering the relationship between the previous and following images, which makes it possible to estimate the undetected parts caused by occlusion using the information of the entire image series. Finally, by collating the total number of each part with the generated ATSG, the excess or deficiency of parts are investigated, and task procedures are removed or added according to those parts. In the experiment section, we build an ATSG using the proposed method to a graphical instruction manual for a chair and demonstrate the action sequences found in the ATSG can be performed by a dual-arm robot execution. The results show the proposed method is effective and simplifies robot teaching in automatic assembly.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sera2021assembly,
      title={Assembly Planning by Recognizing a Graphical Instruction Manual}, 
      author={Issei Sera and Natsuki Yamanobe and Ixchel G. Ramirez-Alpizar and Zhenting Wang and Weiwei Wan and Kensuke Harada},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00424},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.RO}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

