
# Comparison of Random Sampling and Heuristic Optimization-Based Methods for Determining the Flexibility Potential at Vertical System Interconnections

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01056), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01056.pdf)

## Authors

- Gerster Johannes
- Marcel Sarstedt
- Eric MSP Veith
- Sebastian Lehnhoff
- Lutz Hofmann

## Abstract

In order to prevent conflicting or counteracting use of flexibility options, the coordination between distribution system operator and transmission system operator has to be strengthened. For this purpose, methods for the standardized description and identification of the aggregated flexibility potential of distribution grids are developed. Approaches for identifying the feasible operation region (FOR) of distribution grids can be categorized into two main classes: Random sampling/stochastic approaches and optimization-based approaches. While the latter have the advantage of working in real-world scenarios where no full grid models exist, when relying on naive sampling strategies, they suffer from poor coverage of the edges of the FOR due to convoluted distributions. In this paper, we tackle the problem from two different angles. First, we present a random sampling approach which mitigates the convolution problem by drawing sample values from a multivariate Dirichlet distribution. Second, we come up with a hybrid approach which solves the underlying optimal power flow problems of the optimization-based approach by means of a stochastic evolutionary optimization algorithm codenamed REvol. By means of synthetic feeders, we compare the two proposed FOR identification methods with regard to how well the FOR is covered and number of power flow calculations required.

## Comments

9pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2102.03430

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/comparison-of-random-sampling-and-heuristic](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/comparison-of-random-sampling-and-heuristic)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{johannes2021comparison,
      title={Comparison of Random Sampling and Heuristic Optimization-Based Methods for Determining the Flexibility Potential at Vertical System Interconnections}, 
      author={Gerster Johannes and Marcel Sarstedt and Eric MSP Veith and Sebastian Lehnhoff and Lutz Hofmann},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01056},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.SY}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

