
# Deep grey matter quantitative susceptibility mapping from small spatial coverages using deep learning

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0525), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0525.pdf)

## Authors

- Xuanyu Zhu
- Yang Gao
- Feng Liu
- Stuart Crozier
- Hongfu Sun

## Abstract

Introduction: Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping (QSM) is generally acquired with full brain coverage, even though many QSM brain-iron studies focus on the deep grey matter (DGM) region only. Reducing the spatial coverage to the DGM vicinity can substantially shorten the scan time or enhance the spatial resolution without increasing scan time; however, this may lead to significant DGM susceptibility underestimation. Method: A recently proposed deep learning-based QSM method, namely xQSM, is investigated to assess the accuracy of dipole inversion on reduced brain coverages. Pre-processed magnetic field maps are extended symmetrically from the centre of globus pallidus in the coronal plane to simulate QSM acquisitions of difference spatial coverages.Results: The proposed xQSM network led to the lowest DGM contrast lost with the smallest susceptibility variation range across all spatial coverages. For the digital brain phantom simulation, xQSM improved the DGM susceptibility underestimation more than 20% in small spatial coverages. For the in vivo acquisition, less than 5% DGM susceptibility error was achieved in 48 mm axial slabs using the xQSM network, while a minimum of 112 mm coverage was required for conventional methods. It is also shown that the background field removal process performed worse in reduced brain coverages, which further deteriorated the subsequent dipole inversion. Conclusion: The recently proposed deep learning-based xQSM method significantly improves the accuracy of DGM QSM from small spatial coverages as compared with conventional QSM algorithms, which can shorten DGM QSM acquisition time substantially.

## Comments

25 pages, 8 figures, 1 supplementary figure and 1 supplementary table

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{zhu2021deep,
      title={Deep grey matter quantitative susceptibility mapping from small spatial coverages using deep learning}, 
      author={Xuanyu Zhu and Yang Gao and Feng Liu and Stuart Crozier and Hongfu Sun},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00525},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={q-bio.QM}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

