
# Posted Price versus Auction Mechanisms in Freight Transportation Marketplaces

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0923), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0923.pdf)

## Authors

- Sungwoo Kim
- He Wang
- Xuan Wang

## Abstract

We consider a freight platform that serves as an intermediary between shippers and carriers in a truckload transportation network. The objective of the platform is to design a policy that determines prices for shippers and payments to carriers, as well as how carriers are matched to loads to be transported, in order to maximize its long-run average profit. We analyze three types of mechanisms commonly used in freight marketplaces: posted price mechanisms, auction mechanisms, and a hybrid of both. First, we propose a static posted price mechanism and show that it is asymptotically optimal when supply and demand are both large in the network. Then, we consider an auction mechanism based on a Lagrangian decomposition of the network. We show that this auction mechanism is incentive compatible and individually rational, and generates higher profits than the static posted price mechanism in a two-node network. Finally, we study a hybrid mechanism, in which carriers can either book a load instantly by accepting the posted price offered by the platform, or join an auction to seek higher payments. We show that the hybrid mechanism achieves a trade-off between platform profit and carrier waiting time.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{kim2021posted,
      title={Posted Price versus Auction Mechanisms in Freight Transportation Marketplaces}, 
      author={Sungwoo Kim and He Wang and Xuan Wang},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00923},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={math.OC}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

