
# The Global Magneto-Ionic Medium Survey: A Faraday Depth Survey of the Northern Sky Covering 1280-1750 MHz

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0945), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0945.pdf)

## Authors

- M. Wolleben
- T.L. Landecker
- K. A. Douglas
- A.D. Gray
- A. Ordog
- J.M. Dickey
- A.S. Hill
- E. Carretti
- J.C. Brown
- B.M. Gaensler
- J.L. Han
- M. Haverkorn
- R. Kothes
- J.P. Leahy
- N. McClure-Griffiths
- D. McConnell
- W. Reich
- A.R. Taylor
- A.J.M. Thomson
- J.L. West

## Abstract

The Galactic interstellar medium hosts a significant magnetic field, which can be probed through the synchrotron emission produced from its interaction with relativistic electrons. Linearly polarized synchrotron emission is generated throughout the Galaxy, and at longer wavelengths, modified along nearly every path by Faraday rotation in the intervening magneto-ionic medium. Full characterization of the polarized emission requires wideband observations with many frequency channels. We have surveyed polarized radio emission from the Northern sky over the the range 1280-1750 MHz, with channel width 236.8 kHz, using the John A. Galt Telescope (diameter 25.6 m) at the Dominion Radio Astrophysical Observatory, as part of the Global Magneto-Ionic Medium Survey. The survey covered 72% of the sky, declinations -30 to +87 degrees at all right ascensions. The intensity scale was absolutely calibrated, based on the flux density and spectral index of Cygnus A. Polarization angle was calibrated using the extended polarized emission of the Fan Region. Data are presented as brightness temperatures with angular resolution 40'. Sensitivity in Stokes Q and U is 45 mK rms in a 1.18 MHz band. We have applied rotation measure synthesis to the data to obtain a Faraday depth cube of resolution 150 radians per square metre and sensitivity 3 mK rms of polarized intensity. Features in Faraday depth up to a width of 110 radians per square metre are represented. The maximum detectable Faraday depth is +/- 20,000 radians per square metre. The survey data are available at the Canadian Astronomy Data Centre.

## Comments

Accepted for publication in the Astronomical Journal

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{wolleben2021global,
      title={The Global Magneto-Ionic Medium Survey: A Faraday Depth Survey of the Northern Sky Covering 1280-1750 MHz}, 
      author={M. Wolleben and T. L. Landecker and K. A. Douglas and A. D. Gray and A. Ordog and J. M. Dickey and A. S. Hill and E. Carretti and J. C. Brown and B. M. Gaensler and J. L. Han and M. Haverkorn and R. Kothes and J. P. Leahy and N. McClure-Griffiths and D. McConnell and W. Reich and A. R. Taylor and A. J. M. Thomson and J. L. West},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00945},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.GA}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

