
# Nonperturbative effects and resurgence in JT gravity at finite cutoff

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01375), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01375.pdf)

## Authors

- Luca Griguolo
- Rodolfo Panerai
- Jacopo Papalini
- Domenico Seminara

## Abstract

We investigate the nonperturbative structure of Jackiw-Teitelboim gravity at finite cutoff, as given by its proposed formulation in terms of a $T\bar{T}$-deformed Schwarzian quantum mechanics. Our starting point is a careful computation of the disk partition function to all orders in the perturbative expansion in the cutoff parameter. We show that the perturbative series is asymptotic and that it admits a precise completion exploiting the analytical properties of its Borel transform, as prescribed by resurgence theory. The final result is then naturally interpreted in terms of the nonperturbative branch of the $T\bar{T}$-deformed spectrum. The finite-cutoff trumpet partition function is computed by applying the same strategy. In the second part of the paper, we propose an extension of this formalism to arbitrary topologies, using the basic gluing rules of the undeformed case. The Weil-Petersson integrations can be safely performed due to the nonperturbative corrections and give results that are compatible with the flow equation associated with the $T\bar{T}$ deformation. We derive exact expressions for general topologies and show that these are captured by a suitable deformation of the Eynard-Orantin topological recursion. Finally, we study the "slope" and "ramp" regimes of the spectral form factor as functions of the cutoff parameter.

## Comments

34 pages

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/nonperturbative-effects-and-resurgence-in-jt](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/nonperturbative-effects-and-resurgence-in-jt)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{griguolo2021nonperturbative,
      title={Nonperturbative effects and resurgence in JT gravity at finite cutoff}, 
      author={Luca Griguolo and Rodolfo Panerai and Jacopo Papalini and Domenico Seminara},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01375},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={hep-th}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

