
# On digraphs with polygonal restricted numerical range

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0701), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0701.pdf)

## Authors

- Thomas R. Cameron
- H. Tracy Hall
- Ben Small
- Alexander Wiedemann

## Abstract

In 2020, Cameron et al. introduced the restricted numerical range of a digraph (directed graph) as a tool for characterizing digraphs and studying their algebraic connectivity. In particular, digraphs with a restricted numerical range of a single point, a horizontal line segment, and a vertical line segment were characterized as $k$-imploding stars, directed joins of bidirectional digraphs, and regular tournaments, respectively. In this article, we extend these results by investigating digraphs whose restricted numerical range is a convex polygon in the complex plane. We provide computational methods for identifying these polygonal digraphs and show that these digraphs can be broken into three disjoint classes: normal, restricted-normal, and pseudo-normal digraphs, all of which are closed under the digraph complement. We prove sufficient conditions for normal digraphs and show that the directed join of two normal digraphs results in a restricted-normal digraph. Also, we prove that directed joins are the only restricted-normal digraphs when the order is square-free or twice a square-free number. Finally, we provide methods to construct restricted-normal digraphs that are not directed joins for all orders that are neither square-free nor twice a square-free number.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{cameron2021digraphs,
      title={On digraphs with polygonal restricted numerical range}, 
      author={Thomas R. Cameron and H. Tracy Hall and Ben Small and Alexander Wiedemann},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00701},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={math.CO}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

