
# Understanding peacefulness through the world news

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0306), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0306.pdf)

## Authors

- Vasiliki Voukelatou
- Ioanna Miliou
- Fosca Giannotti
- Luca Pappalardo

## Abstract

Peacefulness is a principal dimension of well-being for all humankind and is the way out of inequity and every single form of violence. Thus, its measurement has lately drawn the attention of researchers and policy-makers. During the last years, novel digital data streams have drastically changed the research in this field. In the current study, we exploit information extracted from Global Data on Events, Location, and Tone (GDELT) digital news database, to capture peacefulness through the Global Peace Index (GPI). Applying predictive machine learning models, we demonstrate that news media attention from GDELT can be used as a proxy for measuring GPI at a monthly level. Additionally, we use the SHAP methodology to obtain the most important variables that drive the predictions. This analysis highlights each country's profile and provides explanations for the predictions overall, and particularly for the errors and the events that drive these errors. We believe that digital data exploited by Social Good researchers, policy-makers, and peace-builders, with data science tools as powerful as machine learning, could contribute to maximize the societal benefits and minimize the risks to peacefulness.

## Comments

19 pages, 19 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{voukelatou2021understanding,
      title={Understanding peacefulness through the world news}, 
      author={Vasiliki Voukelatou and Ioanna Miliou and Fosca Giannotti and Luca Pappalardo},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00306},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.AI}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

