
# Experimental studies on the frequency selection in flat plate wakes: mean flow stability analyses and low dimensional modeling

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01247), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01247.pdf)

## Authors

- Dipankar Dutta
- Indra Kanshana
- Shyam Sunder Gopalakrishnan
- Alakesh Chandra Mandal

## Abstract

We investigate the global frequency selection of two-dimensional vortex shedding in the flat plate wake. The analysis is based on the mean flow velocity profiles obtained from experimental measurements carried out for two values of Reynolds number, 1850 and 3350, which are based on the plate thickness and the free-stream velocity. Two different trailing edge geometries of the flat plate are considered in this study: blunt and circular. By performing local spatio-temporal analyses on the measured mean flow velocity profiles, we estimate the global shedding frequency of the flow. This is in excellent agreement with the shedding frequency measured experimentally. To complement the study, we carry out a low-dimensional modeling based on the proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) of the flow fields which is novel for flat plate wakes. We observe that a model based on only two POD modes produces an accurate estimate of the global shedding frequency. Our results also highlight the role of the nonlinear interaction strength between the mean flow with the higher harmonics thereby experimentally supporting the theoretical criterion outlined in Sipp & Lebedev (JFM 2007).

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/experimental-studies-on-the-frequency](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/experimental-studies-on-the-frequency)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{dutta2021experimental,
      title={Experimental studies on the frequency selection in flat plate wakes: mean flow stability analyses and low dimensional modeling}, 
      author={Dipankar Dutta and Indra Kanshana and Shyam Sunder Gopalakrishnan and Alakesh Chandra Mandal},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01247},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={physics.flu-dyn}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

