
# Classification of Collatz infinite sequences

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01324), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01324.pdf)

## Authors

- Raouf Rajab

## Abstract

In the present paper, we are interested in classifying of Collatz sequences on based to the different behavior of these sequences when their lengths tend to infinity. A Collatz infinite sequence can be defined as an infinite ordered set of positive integers such that the term of rank n is results of applying Collatz map n times to the first term. Such term can be expressed on the form Tn(P)=A(P,n)P+B(P,n). When n tends to infinity, each function among the two partial coefficients denoted by A(P,n) and B(P,n) behaves in different ways. This allows us to determine all categories of Collatz infinite sequences. First, we carry out a classification of Collatz infinite sequences on based of the different possible limits of the two coefficients. In second time, we determine the different proportions of every class of the infinite sequences. Note that results obtained do not represent a proof of a Collatz conjecture but they have a strong relationship with this conjecture and it allows us to better understand the behavior of Collatz sequences when n tend to infinity.

## Comments

20 figures, 7 tables, 38 pages in French

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/classification-of-collatz-infinite-sequences](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/classification-of-collatz-infinite-sequences)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{rajab2021classification,
      title={Classification of Collatz infinite sequences}, 
      author={Raouf Rajab},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01324},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={math.GM}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

