
# Multiband effects on the upper critical field angular dependence of 122-family iron pnictide superconductors

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01307), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01307.pdf)

## Authors

- I. F. Llovo
- C. Carballeira
- D. S칩침ora
- A. Pereiro
- J. J. Ponte
- S. Salem-Sugui Jr.
- A. S. Sefat
- J. Mosqueira

## Abstract

Detailed measurements of the in-plane resistivity were performed in a high-quality Ba(Fe$_{1-x}$Co$_{x}$)$_2$As$_2$ ($x=0.065$) single crystal, in magnetic fields up to 9 T and with different orientations $\theta$ relative to the crystal $c$ axis. A significant $\rho(T)_{H,\theta}$ rounding is observed just above the superconducting critical temperature $T_c$ due to Cooper pairs created by superconducting fluctuations. These data are analyzed in terms of a generalization of the Aslamazov-Larkin approach, that extends its applicability to high reduced-temperatures and magnetic fields. This method allows us to carry out a criterion-independent determination of the angular dependence of the upper critical field, $H_{c2}(\theta)$. In spite of the relatively small anisotropy of this compound, it is found that $H_{c2}(\theta)$ presents a significant deviation from the single-band 3D anisotropic Ginzburg-Landau (3D-aGL) approach, particularly for large $\theta$ (typically above $\sim60^o$). These results are interpreted in terms of the multiband nature of these materials, in contrast with other proposals for similar $H_{c2}(\theta)$ anomalies. Our results are also consistent with an effective anisotropy factor almost temperature independent near $T_c$, a result that differs from the ones obtained by using a single-band model.

## Comments

14 pages including 7 figures. This is a preprint of an article published in Scientific Reports. The final authenticated version is available online at: this https URL

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/multiband-effects-on-the-upper-critical-field](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/multiband-effects-on-the-upper-critical-field)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{llovo2021multiband,
      title={Multiband effects on the upper critical field angular dependence of 122-family iron pnictide superconductors}, 
      author={I. F. Llovo and C. Carballeira and D. S칩침ora and A. Pereiro and J. J. Ponte and S. Salem-Sugui Jr. au2 and A. S. Sefat and J. Mosqueira},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01307},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cond-mat.supr-con}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

