
# High Entropy Oxide Relaxor Ferroelectrics

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0868), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0868.pdf)

## Authors

- Yogesh Sharma
- Min-Cheol Lee
- Krishna C. Pitike
- Karuna K. Mishra
- Qiang Zheng
- Xiang Gao
- Brianna L. Musico
- Alessandro R. Mazza
- Ram S. Katiyar
- Veerle Keppens
- Matthew Brahlek
- Dmitry A. Yarotski
- Rohit P. Prasankumar
- Aiping Chen
- Valentino R. Cooper
- T. Zac Ward

## Abstract

Relaxor ferrolectrics are important in technological applications due to a strong electromechanical response, energy storage capacity, electrocaloric effect, and pyroelectric energy conversion properties. Current efforts to discover and design new materials in this class generally rely on substitutional doping of known ferroelectrics, as slight changes to local compositional order can significantly affect the Curie temperature, morphotropic phase boundary, and electromechanical responses. In this work, we demonstrate that moving to the strong limit of compositional complexity in an ABO3 perovskite allows stabilization of novel relaxor responses that do not rely on a single narrow phase transition region. Entropy-assisted synthesis approaches are used to create single crystal Ba(Ti0.2Sn0.2Zr0.2Hf0.2Nb0.2)O3 [Ba(5B)O] films. The high levels of configurational disorder present in this system is found to influence dielectric relaxation, phase transitions, nano-polar domain formation, and Curie temperature. Temperature-dependent dielectric, Raman spectroscopy and second-harmonic generation measurements reveal multiple phase transitions, a high Curie temperature of 570 K, and the relaxor ferroelectric nature of Ba(5B)O films. The first principles theory calculations are used to predict possible combinations of cations to quantify the relative feasibility of formation of highly disordered single-phase perovskite systems. The ability to stabilize single-phase perovskites with such a large number of different cations on the B-sites offers new possibilities for designing high-performance materials for piezoelectric, pyroelectric and tunable dielectric applications.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sharma2021high,
      title={High Entropy Oxide Relaxor Ferroelectrics}, 
      author={Yogesh Sharma and Min-Cheol Lee and Krishna C. Pitike and Karuna K. Mishra and Qiang Zheng and Xiang Gao and Brianna L. Musico and Alessandro R. Mazza and Ram S. Katiyar and Veerle Keppens and Matthew Brahlek and Dmitry A. Yarotski and Rohit P. Prasankumar and Aiping Chen and Valentino R. Cooper and T. Zac Ward},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00868},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cond-mat.mtrl-sci}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

