
# Environment driven oscillation in an off-lattice May--Leonard model

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01857), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01857.pdf)

## Authors

- D. Bazeia
- M. J. B. Ferreira
- B.F. de Oliveira
- A. Szolnoki

## Abstract

Cyclic dominance of competing species is an intensively used working hypothesis to explain biodiversity in certain living systems, where the evolutionary selection principle would dictate a single victor otherwise. Technically the May--Leonard models offer a mathematical framework to describe the mentioned non-transitive interaction of competing species when individual movement is also considered in a spatial system. Emerging rotating spirals composed by the competing species are frequently observed character of the resulting patterns. But how do these spiraling patterns change when we vary the external environment which affects the general vitality of individuals? Motivated by this question we suggest an off-lattice version of the tradition May--Leonard model which allows us to change the actual state of the environment gradually. This can be done by introducing a local carrying capacity parameter which value can be varied gently in an off-lattice environment. Our results support a previous analysis obtained in a more intricate metapopulation model and we show that the well-known rotating spirals become evident in a benign environment when the general density of the population is high. The accompanying time-dependent oscillation of competing species can also be detected where the amplitude and the frequency show a scaling law of the parameter that characterizes the state of the environment. These observations highlight that the assumed non-transitive interaction alone is insufficient condition to maintain biodiversity safely, but the actual state of the environment, which characterizes the general living conditions, also plays a decisive role on the evolution of related systems.

## Comments

10 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Scientific Reports

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/environment-driven-oscillation-in-an-off](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/environment-driven-oscillation-in-an-off)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{bazeia2021environment,
      title={Environment driven oscillation in an off-lattice May--Leonard model}, 
      author={D. Bazeia and M. J. B. Ferreira and B. F. de Oliveira and A. Szolnoki},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01857},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={q-bio.PE}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

