
# Macrospin model of an assembly of magnetically coupled core-shell nanoparticles

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01844), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01844.pdf)

## Authors

- Nikolaos Ntallis
- Corisa Kons
- Hariharan Srikanth
- Manh-Huong Phan
- D.A. Arena
- Manuel Pereiro

## Abstract

Highly sophisticated synthesis methods and experimental techniques allow for precise measurements of magnetic properties of nanoparticles that can be reliably reproduced using theoretical models. Here, we investigate the magnetic properties of ferrite nanoparticles by using theoretical techniques based on Monte Carlo methods. We introduce three stages of sophistication in the macromagnetic model. First, by using tailor-made hamiltonians we study single nanoparticles. In a second stage, the internal structure of the nanoparticle is taken into consideration by defining an internal (core) and external (shell) region, respectively. In the last stage, an assembly of core/shell NPs are considered. All internal magnetic couplings such as inter and intra-atomic exchange interactions or magnetocrystalline anisotropies have been estimated. Moreover, the hysteresis loops of the aforementioned three cases have been calculated and compared with recent experimental measurements. In the case of the assembly of nanoparticles, the hysteresis loops together with the zero-field cooling and field cooling curves are shown to be in a very good agreement with the experimental data. The current model provides an important tool to understand the internal structure of the nanoparticles together with the complex internal spin interactions of the core-shell ferrite nanoparticles.

## Comments

8 pages, 8 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/macrospin-model-of-an-assembly-of](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/macrospin-model-of-an-assembly-of)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{ntallis2021macrospin,
      title={Macrospin model of an assembly of magnetically coupled core-shell nanoparticles}, 
      author={Nikolaos Ntallis and Corisa Kons and Hariharan Srikanth and Manh-Huong Phan and D. A. Arena and Manuel Pereiro},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01844},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cond-mat.mes-hall}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

