
# Zooming into the Collimation Zone in a Massive Protostellar Jet

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01235), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01235.pdf)

## Authors

- Carlos Carrasco-González
- Alberto Sanna
- Adriana Rodríguez-Kamenetzky
- Luca Moscadelli
- Melvin Hoare
- José M. Torrelles
- Roberto Galván-Madrid
- Andrés F. Izquierdo

## Abstract

Protostellar jets have a fundamental role at the earliest evolution of protostars of all masses. In the case of low-mass (<8 Msun) protostars, strong observational evidence exists that the launching and collimation is due to the X- and/or disk-wind mechanisms. In these models, it is the protostar/disk system that creates all the necessary conditions to launch and collimate the jets near the protostar via strong magnetic fields. The origin of jets from more massive protostars has been investigated much less, in part because of the difficulty of resolving the collimation zone in these more distant objects. Here we present the highest angular resolution observations of a jet powered by a massive protostar, the Cep A HW2 radio jet. We imaged the radio emission at projected distances of only ~20 au from the protostar, resolving the innermost 100 au of a massive protostellar jet for the first time. The morphology of the radio jet emission in this massive object is very different than what is usually observed in jets from low-mass protostars. We found that the outflowing material in HW2 has two components: a wide-angle wind launched from the protostar/disk system, and a highly collimated jet starting at 20-30 au from the protostar. We discuss two possible scenarios: an extension of the classical disk-wind to a massive protostar, or external collimation of a wide-angle wind. These results have important consequences for our understanding of how stars of different masses are formed.

## Comments

Accepted for publication in ApJ Letters

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/zooming-into-the-collimation-zone-in-a](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/zooming-into-the-collimation-zone-in-a)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{carrascogonzález2021zooming,
      title={Zooming into the Collimation Zone in a Massive Protostellar Jet}, 
      author={Carlos Carrasco-González and Alberto Sanna and Adriana Rodríguez-Kamenetzky and Luca Moscadelli and Melvin Hoare and José M. Torrelles and Roberto Galván-Madrid and Andrés F. Izquierdo},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01235},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.SR}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

