
# Dopant redistribution and activation in Ga ion-implanted high Ge content SiGe by explosive crystallization during UV nanosecond pulsed laser annealing

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0946), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0946.pdf)

## Authors

- Toshiyuki Tabata
- (1),
- Karim
- Huet
- (1),
- Fabien Rozé
- (1),
- Fulvio Mazzamuto
- (1),
- Bernard Sermage
- (2),
- Petros Kopalidis
- (3),
- Dwight Roh
- (3) ((1) Laser Systems and Solutions of Europe, (2) Probion Analysis, (3) Axcelis Technologies, Inc.)

## Abstract

Explosive crystallization (EC) is often observed when using nanosecond-pulsed melt laser annealing (MLA) in amorphous silicon (Si) and germanium (Ge). The solidification velocity in EC is so fast that a diffusion-less crystallization can be expected. In the contacts of advanced transistors, the active level at the metal/semiconductor Schottky interface must be very high to achieve a sub-10^{-9} ohm.cm2 contact resistivity, which has been already demonstrated by using the dopant surface segregation induced by MLA. However, the beneficial layer of a few nanometers at the surface may be easily consumed during subsequent contact cleaning and metallization. EC helps to address such kind of process integration issues, enabling the optimal positioning of the peak of the dopant chemical profile. However, there is a lack of experimental studies of EC in heavily-doped semiconductor materials. Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge, dopant activation by EC has never been experimentally reported. In this paper, we present dopant redistribution and activation by an EC process induced by UV nanosecond-pulsed MLA in heavily gallium (Ga) ion-implanted high Ge content SiGe. Based on the obtained results, we also highlight potential issues of integrating EC into real device fabrication processes and discuss how to manage them.

## Comments

20 pages, 4 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{tabata2021dopant,
      title={Dopant redistribution and activation in Ga ion-implanted high Ge content SiGe by explosive crystallization during UV nanosecond pulsed laser annealing}, 
      author={Toshiyuki Tabata and Karim and Huet and Fabien Rozé and Fulvio Mazzamuto and Bernard Sermage and Petros Kopalidis and Dwight Roh},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00946},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cond-mat.mtrl-sci}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

