
# KO-PDE: Kernel Optimized Discovery of Partial Differential Equations with Varying Coefficients

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01078), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01078.pdf)

## Authors

- Yingtao Luo
- Qiang Liu
- Yuntian Chen
- Wenbo Hu
- Jun Zhu

## Abstract

Partial differential equations (PDEs) fitting scientific data can represent physical laws with explainable mechanisms for various mathematically-oriented subjects. Most natural dynamics are expressed by PDEs with varying coefficients (PDEs-VC), which highlights the importance of PDE discovery. Previous algorithms can discover some simple instances of PDEs-VC but fail in the discovery of PDEs with coefficients of higher complexity, as a result of coefficient estimation inaccuracy. In this paper, we propose KO-PDE, a kernel optimized regression method that incorporates the kernel density estimation of adjacent coefficients to reduce the coefficient estimation error. KO-PDE can discover PDEs-VC on which previous baselines fail and is more robust against inevitable noise in data. In experiments, the PDEs-VC of seven challenging spatiotemporal scientific datasets in fluid dynamics are all discovered by KO-PDE, while the three baselines render false results in most cases. With state-of-the-art performance, KO-PDE sheds light on the automatic description of natural phenomenons using discovered PDEs in the real world.

## Comments

Preprint. Under review

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/ko-pde-kernel-optimized-discovery-of-partial](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/ko-pde-kernel-optimized-discovery-of-partial)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{luo2021kopde,
      title={KO-PDE: Kernel Optimized Discovery of Partial Differential Equations with Varying Coefficients}, 
      author={Yingtao Luo and Qiang Liu and Yuntian Chen and Wenbo Hu and Jun Zhu},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01078},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

