
# AppBuddy: Learning to Accomplish Tasks in Mobile Apps via Reinforcement Learning

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0133), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0133.pdf)

## Authors

- Maayan Shvo
- Zhiming Hu
- Rodrigo Toro Icarte
- Iqbal Mohomed
- Allan Jepson
- Sheila A. McIlraith

## Abstract

Human beings, even small children, quickly become adept at figuring out how to use applications on their mobile devices. Learning to use a new app is often achieved via trial-and-error, accelerated by transfer of knowledge from past experiences with like apps. The prospect of building a smarter smartphone - one that can learn how to achieve tasks using mobile apps - is tantalizing. In this paper we explore the use of Reinforcement Learning (RL) with the goal of advancing this aspiration. We introduce an RL-based framework for learning to accomplish tasks in mobile apps. RL agents are provided with states derived from the underlying representation of on-screen elements, and rewards that are based on progress made in the task. Agents can interact with screen elements by tapping or typing. Our experimental results, over a number of mobile apps, show that RL agents can learn to accomplish multi-step tasks, as well as achieve modest generalization across different apps. More generally, we develop a platform which addresses several engineering challenges to enable an effective RL training environment. Our AppBuddy platform is compatible with OpenAI Gym and includes a suite of mobile apps and benchmark tasks that supports a diversity of RL research in the mobile app setting.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{shvo2021appbuddy,
      title={AppBuddy: Learning to Accomplish Tasks in Mobile Apps via Reinforcement Learning}, 
      author={Maayan Shvo and Zhiming Hu and Rodrigo Toro Icarte and Iqbal Mohomed and Allan Jepson and Sheila A. McIlraith},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00133},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.AI}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

