
# Black holes with topological charges in Chern-Simons AdS$_5$ supergravity

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01876), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01876.pdf)

## Authors

- Laura Andrianopoli
- Gaston Giribet
- Darío López Díaz
- Olivera Miskovic

## Abstract

We study static black hole solutions with locally spherical horizons coupled to non-Abelian field in $\mathcal{N}=4$ Chern-Simons AdS$_5$ supergravity. They are governed by three parameters associated to the mass, axial torsion and amplitude of the internal soliton, and two ones to the gravitational hair. They describe geometries that can be a global AdS space, naked singularity or a (non-)extremal black hole. We analyze physical properties of two inequivalent asymptotically AdS solutions when the spatial section at radial infinity is either a 3-sphere or a projective 3-space. An important feature of these 3-parametric solutions is that they possess a topological structure including two $SU(2)$ solitons that wind nontrivially around the black hole horizon, as characterized by the Pontryagin index. In the extremal black hole limit, the solitons' strengths match and a soliton-antisoliton system unwinds. That limit admits both non-BPS and BPS configurations. For the latter, the pure gauge and non-pure gauge solutions preserve $1/2$ and $1/16$ of the original supersymmetries, respectively. In a general case, we compute conserved charges in Hamiltonian formalism, finding many similarities with standard supergravity black holes.

## Comments

80 pages

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/black-holes-with-topological-charges-in-chern](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/black-holes-with-topological-charges-in-chern)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{andrianopoli2021black,
      title={Black holes with topological charges in Chern-Simons AdS$_5$ supergravity}, 
      author={Laura Andrianopoli and Gaston Giribet and Darío López Díaz and Olivera Miskovic},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01876},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={hep-th}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

