
# Ebola Optimization Search Algorithm (EOSA): A new metaheuristic algorithm based on the propagation model of Ebola virus disease

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01416), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01416.pdf)

## Authors

- Olaide N. Oyelade
- Absalom E. Ezugwu

## Abstract

The Ebola virus and the disease in effect tend to randomly move individuals in the population around susceptible, infected, quarantined, hospitalized, recovered, and dead sub-population. Motivated by the effectiveness in propagating the disease through the virus, a new bio-inspired and population-based optimization algorithm is proposed. This paper presents a novel metaheuristic algorithm named Ebola optimization algorithm (EOSA). To correctly achieve this, this study models the propagation mechanism of the Ebola virus disease, emphasising all consistent states of the propagation. The model was further represented using a mathematical model based on first-order differential equations. After that, the combined propagation and mathematical models were adapted for developing the new metaheuristic algorithm. To evaluate the proposed method's performance and capability compared with other optimization methods, the underlying propagation and mathematical models were first investigated to determine how they successfully simulate the EVD. Furthermore, two sets of benchmark functions consisting of forty-seven (47) classical and over thirty (30) constrained IEEE CEC-2017 benchmark functions are investigated numerically. The results indicate that the performance of the proposed algorithm is competitive with other state-of-the-art optimization methods based on scalability analysis, convergence analysis, and sensitivity analysis. Extensive simulation results indicate that the EOSA outperforms other state-of-the-art popular metaheuristic optimization algorithms such as the Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm (PSO), Genetic Algorithm (GA), and Artificial Bee Colony Algorithm (ABC) on some shifted, high dimensional and large search range problems.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/ebola-optimization-search-algorithm-eosa-a](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/ebola-optimization-search-algorithm-eosa-a)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{oyelade2021ebola,
      title={Ebola Optimization Search Algorithm (EOSA): A new metaheuristic algorithm based on the propagation model of Ebola virus disease}, 
      author={Olaide N. Oyelade and Absalom E. Ezugwu},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01416},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.AI}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

