
# Reconfigurable multi-bit phase change material silicon photonics directional couplers

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01169), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01169.pdf)

## Authors

- Ting Yu Teo
- Li Lu
- Robert Edward Simpson

## Abstract

The unique optical properties of phase change materials (PCMs) can be exploited to develop efficient reconfigurable photonic devices. Here, we design, model, and compare the performance of programmable 1X2 optical couplers based on: Ge$_2$Sb$_2$Te$_5$, Ge$_2$Sb$_2$Se$_4$Te$_1$, Sb$_2$Se$_3$, and Sb$_2$S$_3$ PCMs. Once programmed, these devices are passive, which can reduce the overall power used in an ONN. In the telecommunication wavelength region (1520 to 1580 nm), the Sb$_2$S$_3$ directional coupler displays a minimum insertion loss of -0.04 dB and -1.1 dB, and the lowest crosstalk of -42 dB and -17 dB for the amorphous and crystalline states respectively. We also design a non-volatile 2-bit low-loss tuneable Sb$_2$S$_3$ directional coupler that can be used to set the weights of optical neural networks (ONN). Partial crystallization of Sb$_2$S$_3$ strips with dimensions compatible to those in the directional coupler indicate that at least four different crystalline lengths can be reliably programmed. We used this effect to design a 2-bit tuneable Sb$_2$S$_3$ directional coupler with a weight dynamic range close to 17 dB. The bit-depth of the coupler appears to be limited by the crystallization stochasticity.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/reconfigurable-multi-bit-phase-change](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/reconfigurable-multi-bit-phase-change)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{teo2021reconfigurable,
      title={Reconfigurable multi-bit phase change material silicon photonics directional couplers}, 
      author={Ting Yu Teo and Li Lu and Robert Edward Simpson},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01169},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={physics.optics}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

