
# Warming-up recurrent neural networks to maximize reachable multi-stability greatly improves learning

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01001), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01001.pdf)

## Authors

- Nicolas Vecoven
- Damien Ernst
- Guillaume Drion

## Abstract

Training recurrent neural networks is known to be difficult when time dependencies become long. Consequently, training standard gated cells such as gated recurrent units and long-short term memory on benchmarks where long-term memory is required remains an arduous task. In this work, we propose a general way to initialize any recurrent network connectivity through a process called "warm-up" to improve its capability to learn arbitrarily long time dependencies. This initialization process is designed to maximize network reachable multi-stability, i.e. the number of attractors within the network that can be reached through relevant input trajectories. Warming-up is performed before training, using stochastic gradient descent on a specifically designed loss. We show that warming-up greatly improves recurrent neural network performance on long-term memory benchmarks for multiple recurrent cell types, but can sometimes impede precision. We therefore introduce a parallel recurrent network structure with partial warm-up that is shown to greatly improve learning on long time-series while maintaining high levels of precision. This approach provides a general framework for improving learning abilities of any recurrent cell type when long-term memory is required.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/warming-up-recurrent-neural-networks-to](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/warming-up-recurrent-neural-networks-to)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{vecoven2021warmingup,
      title={Warming-up recurrent neural networks to maximize reachable multi-stability greatly improves learning}, 
      author={Nicolas Vecoven and Damien Ernst and Guillaume Drion},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01001},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

