
# A non-separable first-order spatio-temporal intensity for events on linear networks: an application to ambulance interventions

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0457), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0457.pdf)

## Authors

- Andrea Gilardi
- Riccardo Borgoni
- Jorge Mateu

## Abstract

The algorithms used for optimal management of ambulances require accurate description and prediction of the spatio-temporal evolution of emergency interventions. In the last years, several authors have proposed sophisticated statistical approaches to forecast the ambulance dispatches, typically modelling the events as a point pattern occurring on a planar region. Nevertheless, ambulance interventions can be more appropriately modelled as a realisation of a point process occurring along a network of lines, such as a road network. The constrained spatial domain raises specific challenges and unique methodological problems that cannot be ignored when developing a proper statistical model. Hence, this paper proposes a spatiotemporal model to analyse the ambulance interventions that occurred in the road network of Milan (Italy) from 2015 to 2017. We adopt a non-separable first-order intensity function with spatial and temporal terms. The temporal component is estimated semi-parametrically using a Poisson regression model, while the spatial dimension is estimated nonparametrically using a network kernel function. A set of weights is included in the spatial term to capture space-time interactions, inducing non-separability in the intensity function. A series of maps and graphical tests show that our approach successfully models the ambulance interventions and captures the space-time patterns.

## Comments

20 pages, 12 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{gilardi2021nonseparable,
      title={A non-separable first-order spatio-temporal intensity for events on linear networks: an application to ambulance interventions}, 
      author={Andrea Gilardi and Riccardo Borgoni and Jorge Mateu},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00457},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={stat.AP}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

