
# Rate-Splitting Multiple Access in Cache-Aided Cloud-Radio Access Networks

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0369), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0369.pdf)

## Authors

- Robert-Jeron Reifert
- Alaa Alameer Ahmad
- Yijie Mao
- Aydin Sezgin
- Bruno Clerckx

## Abstract

Rate-splitting multiple access (RSMA) has been recognized as a promising physical layer strategy for 6G. Motivated by ever increasing popularity of cache-enabled content delivery in wireless communications, this paper proposes an innovative multigroup multicast transmission scheme based on RSMA for cache-aided cloud-radio access networks (C-RAN). Our proposed scheme not only exploits the properties of content-centric communications and local caching at the base stations (BSs), but also incorporates RSMA to better manage interference in multigroup multicast transmission with statistical channel state information (CSI) known at the central processor (CP) and the BSs. At the RSMA-enabled cloud CP, the message of each multicast group is split into a private and a common part with the former private part being decoded by all users in the respective group and the latter common part being decoded by multiple users from other multicast groups. Common message decoding is done for the purpose of mitigating the interference. In this work, we jointly optimize the clustering of BSs and the precoding with the aim of maximizing the minimum rate among all multicast groups to guarantee fairness serving all groups. The problem is a mixed-integer non-linear stochastic program (MINLSP), which is solved by a practical algorithm we proposed including a heuristic clustering algorithm for assigning a set of BSs to serve each user followed by an efficient iterative algorithm that combines the sample average approximation (SAA) and weighted minimum mean square error (WMMSE) to solve the stochastic non-convex sub-problem of precoder design. Numerical results show the explicit max-min rate gain of our proposed transmission scheme compared to the state-of-the-art trivial interference processing methods. Therefore, we conclude that RSMA is a promising technique for cache-aided C-RAN.

## Comments

38 pages, 9 figures, 2 tables

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{reifert2021ratesplitting,
      title={Rate-Splitting Multiple Access in Cache-Aided Cloud-Radio Access Networks}, 
      author={Robert-Jeron Reifert and Alaa Alameer Ahmad and Yijie Mao and Aydin Sezgin and Bruno Clerckx},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00369},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.IT}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

