
# On the consistency of (partially-)massless matter couplings in de Sitter space

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0366), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0366.pdf)

## Authors

- Charlotte Sleight
- Massimo Taronna

## Abstract

We study the consistency of the cubic couplings of a (partially-)massless spinning field to two scalars in $\left(d+1\right)$-dimensional de Sitter space. Gauge invariance of observables with external (partially)-massless spinning fields translates into Ward-Takahashi identities on the boundary. Using the Mellin-Barnes representation for boundary correlators in momentum space, we give a systematic study of Ward-Takahashi identities for tree-level 3- and 4-point processes involving a single external (partially-)massless field of arbitrary integer spin-$J$. 3-point Ward-Takahashi identities constrain the mass of the scalar fields to which a (partially-)massless spin-$J$ field can couple. 4-point Ward-Takahashi identities then constrain the corresponding cubic couplings. For massless spinning fields, we show that Weinberg's flat space results carry over to $\left(d+1\right)$-dimensional de Sitter space: For spins $J=1,2$ gauge-invariance implies charge-conservation and the equivalence principle while, assuming locality, higher-spins $J>2$ cannot couple consistently to scalar matter. This result also applies to anti-de Sitter space. For partially-massless fields, restricting for simplicity to those of depth-2, we show that there is no consistent coupling to scalar matter in local theories. Along the way we give a detailed account of how contact amplitudes with and without derivatives are represented in the Mellin-Barnes representation. Various new explicit expressions for 3- and 4-point functions involving (partially-)massless fields and conformally coupled scalars in dS$_4$ are given.

## Comments

45 pages + appendices, 2 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sleight2021consistency,
      title={On the consistency of (partially-)massless matter couplings in de Sitter space}, 
      author={Charlotte Sleight and Massimo Taronna},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00366},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={hep-th}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

