
# PP-Rec: News Recommendation with Personalized User Interest and Time-aware News Popularity

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01300), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01300.pdf)

## Authors

- Tao Qi
- Fangzhao Wu
- Chuhan Wu
- Yongfeng Huang

## Abstract

Personalized news recommendation methods are widely used in online news services. These methods usually recommend news based on the matching between news content and user interest inferred from historical behaviors. However, these methods usually have difficulties in making accurate recommendations to cold-start users, and tend to recommend similar news with those users have read. In general, popular news usually contain important information and can attract users with different interests. Besides, they are usually diverse in content and topic. Thus, in this paper we propose to incorporate news popularity information to alleviate the cold-start and diversity problems for personalized news recommendation. In our method, the ranking score for recommending a candidate news to a target user is the combination of a personalized matching score and a news popularity score. The former is used to capture the personalized user interest in news. The latter is used to measure time-aware popularity of candidate news, which is predicted based on news content, recency, and real-time CTR using a unified framework. Besides, we propose a popularity-aware user encoder to eliminate the popularity bias in user behaviors for accurate interest modeling. Experiments on two real-world datasets show our method can effectively improve the accuracy and diversity for news recommendation.

## Comments

ACL 2021

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/pp-rec-news-recommendation-with-personalized](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/pp-rec-news-recommendation-with-personalized)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{qi2021pprec,
      title={PP-Rec: News Recommendation with Personalized User Interest and Time-aware News Popularity}, 
      author={Tao Qi and Fangzhao Wu and Chuhan Wu and Yongfeng Huang},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01300},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.IR}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

