
# Reconciling interoperability with efficient Verification and Validation within open source simulation environments

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01343), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01343.pdf)

## Authors

- Stefano Sinisi
- Vadim Alimguzhin
- Toni Mancini
- Enrico Tronci

## Abstract

A Cyber-Physical System (CPS) comprises physical as well as software subsystems. Simulation-based approaches are typically used to support design and Verification and Validation (V&V) of CPSs in several domains such as: aerospace, defence, automotive, smart grid and healthcare. Accordingly, many simulation-based tools are available, and this poses huge interoperability challenges. To overcome them, in 2010 the Functional Mock-up Interface (FMI) was proposed as an open standard to support both Model Exchange (ME) and Co-Simulation (CS). Models adhering to such a standard are called Functional Mock-up Units (FMUs). FMUs play an essential role in defining complex CPSs through, e.g., the SSP standard. Simulation-based V&V of CPSs typically requires exploring different scenarios (i.e., exogenous CPS input sequences), many of them showing a shared prefix. Accordingly, the simulator state at the end of a shared prefix is saved and then restored and used as a start state for the simulation of the next scenario. In this context, an important FMI feature is the capability to save and restore the internal FMU state on demand. Unfortunately, the implementation of this feature is not mandatory and it is available only within some commercial software. This motivates developing such a feature for open-source CPS simulation environments. In this paper, we focus on JModelica, an open-source modelling and simulation environment for CPSs defined in the Modelica language. We describe how we have endowed JModelica with our open-source implementation of the FMI 2.0 functions to save and restore internal states of FMUs for ME. Furthermore, we present results evaluating, through 934 benchmark models, correctness and efficiency of our extended JModelica. Our results show that simulation-based V&V is, on average, 22 times faster with our get/set functionality than without it.

## Comments

Abridged abstract. This article is 29 pages long

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/reconciling-interoperability-with-efficient](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/reconciling-interoperability-with-efficient)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sinisi2021reconciling,
      title={Reconciling interoperability with efficient Verification and Validation within open source simulation environments}, 
      author={Stefano Sinisi and Vadim Alimguzhin and Toni Mancini and Enrico Tronci},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01343},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.SE}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

