
# Counterfactual Invariance to Spurious Correlations: Why and How to Pass Stress Tests

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0545), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0545.pdf)

## Authors

- Victor Veitch
- Alexander D'Amour
- Steve Yadlowsky
- Jacob Eisenstein

## Abstract

Informally, a `spurious correlation' is the dependence of a model on some aspect of the input data that an analyst thinks shouldn't matter. In machine learning, these have a know-it-when-you-see-it character; e.g., changing the gender of a sentence's subject changes a sentiment predictor's output. To check for spurious correlations, we can `stress test' models by perturbing irrelevant parts of input data and seeing if model predictions change. In this paper, we study stress testing using the tools of causal inference. We introduce \emph{counterfactual invariance} as a formalization of the requirement that changing irrelevant parts of the input shouldn't change model predictions. We connect counterfactual invariance to out-of-domain model performance, and provide practical schemes for learning (approximately) counterfactual invariant predictors (without access to counterfactual examples). It turns out that both the means and implications of counterfactual invariance depend fundamentally on the true underlying causal structure of the data. Distinct causal structures require distinct regularization schemes to induce counterfactual invariance. Similarly, counterfactual invariance implies different domain shift guarantees depending on the underlying causal structure. This theory is supported by empirical results on text classification.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{veitch2021counterfactual,
      title={Counterfactual Invariance to Spurious Correlations: Why and How to Pass Stress Tests}, 
      author={Victor Veitch and Alexander D'Amour and Steve Yadlowsky and Jacob Eisenstein},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00545},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

