
# Spin Hall and inverse spin galvanic effects in graphene with strong interfacial spin-orbit coupling: a quasi-classical Green's function approach

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0624), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0624.pdf)

## Authors

- Carmen Monaco
- Aires Ferreira
- Roberto Raimondi

## Abstract

van der Waals heterostructures assembled from atomically thin crystals are ideal model systems to study spin-orbital coupled transport because they exhibit a strong interplay between spin, lattice and valley degrees of freedom that can be manipulated by strain, electric bias and proximity effects. The recently predicted spin-helical regime in graphene on transition metal dichalcogenides, in which spin and pseudospin degrees of freedom are locked together [M. Offidani et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 119, 196801 (2017)], suggests their potential application in spintronics. Here, by deriving an Eilenberger equation for the quasiclassical Green's function of two-dimensional Dirac fermions in the presence of} spin-orbit coupling\textcolor{black}{{} (SOC) and scalar disorder, we obtain analytical expressions for the dc spin galvanic susceptibility and spin Hall conductivity in the spin-helical regime. Our results disclose a sign change in the spin Hall angle (SHA) when the Fermi energy relative to the Dirac point matches the Bychkov-Rashba energy scale, irrespective of the magnitude of the spin-valley interaction imprinted on the graphene layer. The behavior of the SHA is connected to a reversal of the total internal angular momentum of Bloch electrons that reflects the spin-pseudospin entanglement induced by SOC. We also show that the charge-spin conversion reaches a maximum when the Fermi level lies at the edge of the spin-minority band in agreement with previous findings. Both features are fingerprints of spin-helical Dirac fermions and suggest a direct way to estimate the strength of proximity-induced SOC from transport data. The relevance of these findings for interpreting recent spin-charge conversion measurements in nonlocal spin-valve geometry is also discussed.

## Comments

16 pages, 4 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{monaco2021spin,
      title={Spin Hall and inverse spin galvanic effects in graphene with strong interfacial spin-orbit coupling: a quasi-classical Green's function approach}, 
      author={Carmen Monaco and Aires Ferreira and Roberto Raimondi},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00624},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cond-mat.mes-hall}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

