
# Ethical-Advice Taker: Do Language Models Understand Natural Language Interventions?

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01465), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01465.pdf)

## Authors

- Jieyu Zhao
- Daniel Khashabi
- Tushar Khot
- Ashish Sabharwal
- Kai-Wei Chang

## Abstract

Is it possible to use natural language to intervene in a model's behavior and alter its prediction in a desired way? We investigate the effectiveness of natural language interventions for reading-comprehension systems, studying this in the context of social stereotypes. Specifically, we propose a new language understanding task, Linguistic Ethical Interventions (LEI), where the goal is to amend a question-answering (QA) model's unethical behavior by communicating context-specific principles of ethics and equity to it. To this end, we build upon recent methods for quantifying a system's social stereotypes, augmenting them with different kinds of ethical interventions and the desired model behavior under such interventions. Our zero-shot evaluation finds that even today's powerful neural language models are extremely poor ethical-advice takers, that is, they respond surprisingly little to ethical interventions even though these interventions are stated as simple sentences. Few-shot learning improves model behavior but remains far from the desired outcome, especially when evaluated for various types of generalization. Our new task thus poses a novel language understanding challenge for the community.

## Comments

9 pages, Findings of ACL-IJCNLP 2021

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/ethical-advice-taker-do-language-models](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/ethical-advice-taker-do-language-models)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{zhao2021ethicaladvice,
      title={Ethical-Advice Taker: Do Language Models Understand Natural Language Interventions?}, 
      author={Jieyu Zhao and Daniel Khashabi and Tushar Khot and Ashish Sabharwal and Kai-Wei Chang},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01465},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

