
# Modeling iterative reconstruction and displacement field in the large scale structure

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0146), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0146.pdf)

## Authors

- Atsuhisa Ota
- Hee-Jong Seo
- Shun Saito
- Florian Beutler

## Abstract

The next generation of galaxy surveys like the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI) and Euclid will provide datasets orders of magnitude larger than anything available to date. Our ability to model nonlinear effects in late time matter perturbations will be a key to unlock the full potential of these datasets, and the area of initial condition reconstruction is attracting growing attention. Iterative reconstruction developed in Ref. [1] is a technique designed to reconstruct the displacement field from the observed galaxy distribution. The nonlinear displacement field and initial linear density field are highly correlated. Therefore, reconstructing the nonlinear displacement field enables us to extract the primordial cosmological information better than from the late time density field at the level of the two-point statistics. This paper will test to what extent the iterative reconstruction can recover the true displacement field and construct a perturbation theory model for the postreconstructed field. We model the iterative reconstruction process with Lagrangian perturbation theory~(LPT) up to third order for dark matter in real space and compare it with $N$-body simulations. We find that the simulated iterative reconstruction does not converge to the nonlinear displacement field, and the discrepancy mainly appears in the shift term, i.e., the term correlated directly with the linear density field. On the contrary, our 3LPT model predicts that the iterative reconstruction should converge to the nonlinear displacement field. We discuss the sources of discrepancy, including numerical noise/artifacts on small scales, and present an ad hoc phenomenological model that improves the agreement.

## Comments

19 pages, 11 figures, submitted to PRD

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{ota2021modeling,
      title={Modeling iterative reconstruction and displacement field in the large scale structure}, 
      author={Atsuhisa Ota and Hee-Jong Seo and Shun Saito and Florian Beutler},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00146},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.CO}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

