
# Phase Transitions of Repulsive Two-Component Fermi Gases in Two Dimensions

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01068), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01068.pdf)

## Authors

- Martin-Isbjörn Trappe
- Piotr T. Grochowski
- Jun Hao Hue
- Tomasz Karpiuk
- Kazimierz Rzążewski

## Abstract

We predict the phase separations of two-dimensional Fermi gases with repulsive contact-type interactions between two spin components. Using density-potential functional theory with systematic semiclassical approximations, we address the long-standing problem of itinerant ferromagnetism in realistic settings. We reveal a universal transition from the paramagnetic state at small repulsive interactions towards ferromagnetic density profiles at large interaction strengths, with intricate particle-number dependent phases in between. Building on quantum Monte Carlo results for uniform systems, we benchmark our simulations against Hartree-Fock calculations for a small number of trapped fermions. We thereby demonstrate that our employed corrections to the mean-field interaction energy and especially to the Thomas-Fermi kinetic energy functional are necessary for reliably predicting properties of trapped mesoscopic Fermi gases. The density patterns of the ground state survive at low finite temperatures and confirm the Stoner-type polarization behavior across a universal interaction parameter, albeit with substantial quantitative differences that originate in the trapping potential and the quantum-corrected kinetic energy. We also uncover a zoo of metastable configurations that are energetically comparable to the ground-state density profiles and are thus likely to be observed in experiments. We argue that our density-functional approach can be easily applied to interacting multi-component Fermi gases in general.

## Comments

23 pages, 8 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/phase-transitions-of-repulsive-two-component](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/phase-transitions-of-repulsive-two-component)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{trappe2021phase,
      title={Phase Transitions of Repulsive Two-Component Fermi Gases in Two Dimensions}, 
      author={Martin-Isbjörn Trappe and Piotr T. Grochowski and Jun Hao Hue and Tomasz Karpiuk and Kazimierz Rzążewski},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01068},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cond-mat.quant-gas}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

