
# Unsupervised Out-of-Domain Detection via Pre-trained Transformers

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0948), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0948.pdf)

## Authors

- Keyang Xu
- Tongzheng Ren
- Shikun Zhang
- Yihao Feng
- Caiming Xiong

## Abstract

Deployed real-world machine learning applications are often subject to uncontrolled and even potentially malicious inputs. Those out-of-domain inputs can lead to unpredictable outputs and sometimes catastrophic safety issues. Prior studies on out-of-domain detection require in-domain task labels and are limited to supervised classification scenarios. Our work tackles the problem of detecting out-of-domain samples with only unsupervised in-domain data. We utilize the latent representations of pre-trained transformers and propose a simple yet effective method to transform features across all layers to construct out-of-domain detectors efficiently. Two domain-specific fine-tuning approaches are further proposed to boost detection accuracy. Our empirical evaluations of related methods on two datasets validate that our method greatly improves out-of-domain detection ability in a more general scenario.

## Comments

Accepted by ACL 2021. Code is available at this https URL

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{xu2021unsupervised,
      title={Unsupervised Out-of-Domain Detection via Pre-trained Transformers}, 
      author={Keyang Xu and Tongzheng Ren and Shikun Zhang and Yihao Feng and Caiming Xiong},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00948},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

