
# The RapidXMM Upper Limit Server: X-ray aperture photometry of the XMM-Newton archival observations

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01687), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01687.pdf)

## Authors

- A. Ruiz
- A. Georgakakis
- S. Gerakakis
- R. Saxton
- P. Kretschmar
- A. Akylas
- I. Georgantopoulos

## Abstract

This paper presents the construction of the RapidXMM database that is available through the XMM-Newton Science Archive and offers access to upper limits and aperture photometry across the field of view of the XMM-Newton Pointed and Slew Survey observations. The feature of RapidXMM is speed. It enables the fast retrieval of X-ray upper limits and photometry products in three energy bands (0.2-2, 2-12, 0.2-12 keV) for large numbers of input sky positions. This is accomplished using the Hierarchical Equal Area Iso Latitude pixelation of the sphere (HEALPix). The pre-calculated upper-limits and associated X-ray photometry products are reprojected into the HEALPix grid of cells before being ingested into the RapidXMM database. This results in tables of upper limits and aperture photometry within HEALPix cells of size ~3 arcsec (Pointed Observations) and ~6 arcsec (Slew Survey). The database tables are indexed by the unique integer number of the HEALPix cells. This reduces spatial nearest-neighbor queries by sky position to an integer-matching exercise and significantly accelerates the retrieval of results. We describe in detail the processing steps that lead from the science products available in the XMM-Newton archive to a database optimised for sky queries. We also present two simple show-case applications of RapidXMM for scientific studies: searching for variable X-ray sources, and stacking analysis of X-ray faint populations

## Comments

20 pages, 20 figures, submitted to MNRAS

## Source Code

Official Code

- [https://github.com/ruizca/rapidxmm](https://github.com/ruizca/rapidxmm)

Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/the-rapidxmm-upper-limit-server-x-ray](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/the-rapidxmm-upper-limit-server-x-ray)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{ruiz2021rapidxmm,
      title={The RapidXMM Upper Limit Server: X-ray aperture photometry of the XMM-Newton archival observations}, 
      author={A. Ruiz and A. Georgakakis and S. Gerakakis and R. Saxton and P. Kretschmar and A. Akylas and I. Georgantopoulos},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01687},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.HE}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

