
# Phase-space distributions of nuclear short-range correlations

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01249), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01249.pdf)

## Authors

- W. Cosyn
- J. Ryckebusch

## Abstract

Nuclear short-range correlations (SRC) induce high-momentum/high-energy fluctuations in the nuclear medium. In order to assess the impact of SRC on nuclear bulk properties, like nucleon radii and kinetic energies, it is instrumental to determine how SRC are distributed in phase space as this sheds light on the connection between the appearance of SRC in coordinate and momentum space. Using the lowest-order correlation operator approximation (LCA) to include SRC, we compute two-dimensional nuclear Wigner quasiprobability distributions $w(r, k)$ to locate those $({r}, {k})$ phase-space regions that are most heavily impacted by SRC. The SRC-induced high-momentum components find their origin in a radial range that is confined to the nuclear interior. Significant SRC strength is generated in the full momentum range $0 \leq k \lesssim 5 ~\text{fm}^{-1} $ covered in this work, but below the Fermi momentum those are dwarfed by the mean-field contributions. As an application of $w(r, k)$, we focus on the radial dependence of the kinetic energy $T$ and the momentum dependence of the nucleon radius $r_{\text{rms}}$ for the symmetric nuclei $^{12}$C, $^{40}$Ca and the asymmetric nucleus $^{48}$Ca. The kinetic energy almost doubles after including SRCs, with the largest increase occurring in the nuclear interior $r \lesssim 2$ fm. The momentum dependence of the $r_{\text{rms}}$ teaches that the largest contributions stem from $k \lesssim 2 $ fm$^{-1}$, where the SRC induce a slight reduction of the order of a few percent. The SRC systematically reduce the $^{48}$Ca neutron skin by an amount that can be 10%.

## Comments

10 pages, 6 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/phase-space-distributions-of-nuclear-short](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/phase-space-distributions-of-nuclear-short)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{cosyn2021phasespace,
      title={Phase-space distributions of nuclear short-range correlations}, 
      author={W. Cosyn and J. Ryckebusch},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01249},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={nucl-th}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

