
# Machine Learning Based Texture Analysis of Patella from X-Rays for Detecting Patellofemoral Osteoarthritis

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01700), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01700.pdf)

## Authors

- Neslihan Bayramoglu
- Miika T. Nieminen
- Simo Saarakkala

## Abstract

Objective is to assess the ability of texture features for detecting radiographic patellofemoral osteoarthritis (PFOA) from knee lateral view radiographs. We used lateral view knee radiographs from MOST public use datasets (n = 5507 knees). Patellar region-of-interest (ROI) was automatically detected using landmark detection tool (BoneFinder). Hand-crafted features, based on LocalBinary Patterns (LBP), were then extracted to describe the patellar texture. First, a machine learning model (Gradient Boosting Machine) was trained to detect radiographic PFOA from the LBP features. Furthermore, we used end-to-end trained deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) directly on the texture patches for detecting the PFOA. The proposed classification models were eventually compared with more conventional reference models that use clinical assessments and participant characteristics such as age, sex, body mass index(BMI), the total WOMAC score, and tibiofemoral Kellgren-Lawrence (KL) grade. Atlas-guided visual assessment of PFOA status by expert readers provided in the MOST public use datasets was used as a classification outcome for the models. Performance of prediction models was assessed using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC AUC), the area under the precision-recall (PR) curve-average precision (AP)-, and Brier score in the stratified 5-fold cross validation setting.Of the 5507 knees, 953 (17.3%) had PFOA. AUC and AP for the strongest reference model including age, sex, BMI, WOMAC score, and tibiofemoral KL grade to predict PFOA were 0.817 and 0.487, respectively. Textural ROI classification using CNN significantly improved the prediction performance (ROC AUC= 0.889, AP= 0.714). We present the first study that analyses patellar bone texture for diagnosing PFOA. Our results demonstrates the potential of using texture features of patella to predict PFOA.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/machine-learning-based-texture-analysis-of](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/machine-learning-based-texture-analysis-of)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{bayramoglu2021machine,
      title={Machine Learning Based Texture Analysis of Patella from X-Rays for Detecting Patellofemoral Osteoarthritis}, 
      author={Neslihan Bayramoglu and Miika T. Nieminen and Simo Saarakkala},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01700},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.IV}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

