
# One4all User Representation for Recommender Systems in E-commerce

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0573), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0573.pdf)

## Authors

- Kyuyong Shin
- Hanock Kwak
- Kyung-Min Kim
- Minkyu Kim
- Young-Jin Park
- Jisu Jeong
- Seungjae Jung

## Abstract

General-purpose representation learning through large-scale pre-training has shown promising results in the various machine learning fields. For an e-commerce domain, the objective of general-purpose, i.e., one for all, representations would be efficient applications for extensive downstream tasks such as user profiling, targeting, and recommendation tasks. In this paper, we systematically compare the generalizability of two learning strategies, i.e., transfer learning through the proposed model, ShopperBERT, vs. learning from scratch. ShopperBERT learns nine pretext tasks with 79.2M parameters from 0.8B user behaviors collected over two years to produce user embeddings. As a result, the MLPs that employ our embedding method outperform more complex models trained from scratch for five out of six tasks. Specifically, the pre-trained embeddings have superiority over the task-specific supervised features and the strong baselines, which learn the auxiliary dataset for the cold-start problem. We also show the computational efficiency and embedding visualization of the pre-trained features.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{shin2021one4all,
      title={One4all User Representation for Recommender Systems in E-commerce}, 
      author={Kyuyong Shin and Hanock Kwak and Kyung-Min Kim and Minkyu Kim and Young-Jin Park and Jisu Jeong and Seungjae Jung},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00573},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.IR}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

