
# Jet-induced feedback in the [O III] lines of early evolution stage active galactic nuclei

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01076), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01076.pdf)

## Authors

- Marco Berton
- Emilia J채rvel채

## Abstract

It is well known that active galactic nuclei (AGN) show various forms of interaction with their host galaxy, in a number of phenomena generally called AGN feedback. In particular, the relativistic plasma jets launched by a fraction of AGN can strongly affect their environment. We present here a study of the [O III] $\lambda\lambda$4959,5007 lines in a diverse sample of early evolution stage AGN -- specifically narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxies. Radio imaging observations of all of the sources enable a division to jetted and non-jetted sources, and exploiting this we show that the ionized gas properties are significantly influenced by the presence of the jets, as we often find the [O III] lines (blue-)shifted with respect to their restframe wavelength. We also show how the radio morphology and the radio spectral index do not seem to play a role in the origin of the [O III] shifts, thus suggesting that the source inclination is not relevant to the lines displacement. We do not find a strong relation between the [O III] line properties and the bolometric luminosity, suggesting that within our sample radiatively driven outflows do not seem to have a significant contribution to the [O III] line kinematics. We finally suggest that [O~ III] shifts may be a good proxy to identify the presence of relativistic jets. Additional studies, especially with integral-field spectroscopy, will provide a deeper insight into the relation between jets and their environment in early evolution stage AGN.

## Comments

30 pages, 9 figures, 8 tables, accepted for publication on Universe, Special Issue "Panchromatic View of the Life-Cycle of AGN"

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/jet-induced-feedback-in-the-o-iii-lines-of](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/jet-induced-feedback-in-the-o-iii-lines-of)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{berton2021jetinduced,
      title={Jet-induced feedback in the [O III] lines of early evolution stage active galactic nuclei}, 
      author={Marco Berton and Emilia J채rvel채},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01076},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.GA}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

