
# Linear-Time Gromov Wasserstein Distances using Low Rank Couplings and Costs

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01128), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01128.pdf)

## Authors

- Meyer Scetbon
- Gabriel Peyré
- Marco Cuturi

## Abstract

The ability to compare and align related datasets living in heterogeneous spaces plays an increasingly important role in machine learning. The Gromov-Wasserstein (GW) formalism can help tackle this problem. Its main goal is to seek an assignment (more generally a coupling matrix) that can register points across otherwise incomparable datasets. As a non-convex and quadratic generalization of optimal transport (OT), GW is NP-hard. Yet, heuristics are known to work reasonably well in practice, the state of the art approach being to solve a sequence of nested regularized OT problems. While popular, that heuristic remains too costly to scale, with cubic complexity in the number of samples $n$. We show in this paper how a recent variant of the Sinkhorn algorithm can substantially speed up the resolution of GW. That variant restricts the set of admissible couplings to those admitting a low rank factorization as the product of two sub-couplings. By updating alternatively each sub-coupling, our algorithm computes a stationary point of the problem in quadratic time with respect to the number of samples. When cost matrices have themselves low rank, our algorithm has time complexity $\mathcal{O}(n)$. We demonstrate the efficiency of our method on simulated and real data.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/linear-time-gromov-wasserstein-distances](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/linear-time-gromov-wasserstein-distances)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{scetbon2021lineartime,
      title={Linear-Time Gromov Wasserstein Distances using Low Rank Couplings and Costs}, 
      author={Meyer Scetbon and Gabriel Peyré and Marco Cuturi},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01128},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

