
# Deficit Round-Robin: A Second Network Calculus Analysis

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01034), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01034.pdf)

## Authors

- Seyed Mohammadhossein Tabatabaee
- Jean-Yves Le Boudec

## Abstract

Deficit Round-Robin (DRR) is a widespread scheduling algorithm that provides fair queueing with variable-length packets. Bounds on worst-case delays for DRR were found by Boyer et al., who used a rigorous network calculus approach and characterized the service obtained by one flow of interest by means of a convex strict service curve. These bounds do not make any assumptions on the interfering traffic hence are pessimistic when the interfering traffic is constrained by some arrival curves. For such cases, two improvements were proposed. The former, by Soni et al., uses a correction term derived from a semi-rigorous heuristic; unfortunately, these bounds are incorrect, as we show by exhibiting a counter-example. The latter, by Bouillard, rigorously derive convex strict service curves for DRR that account for the arrival curve constraints of the interfering traffic. In this paper, we improve on these results in two ways. First, we derive a non-convex strict service curve for DRR that improves on Boyer et al. when there is no arrival constraint on the interfering traffic. Second, we provide an iterative method to improve any strict service curve (including Bouillard's) when there are arrival constraints for the interfering traffic. As of today, our results provide the best-known worst-case delay bounds for DRR. They are obtained by using the method of the pseudo-inverse.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/deficit-round-robin-a-second-network-calculus](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/deficit-round-robin-a-second-network-calculus)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{tabatabaee2021deficit,
      title={Deficit Round-Robin: A Second Network Calculus Analysis}, 
      author={Seyed Mohammadhossein Tabatabaee and Jean-Yves Le Boudec},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01034},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.PF}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

