
# Can one hear a matrix? Recovering a real symmetric matrix from its spectral data

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01819), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01819.pdf)

## Authors

- Tomasz Maciążek
- Uzy Smilansky

## Abstract

The spectrum of a real and symmetric $N\times N$ matrix determines the matrix up to unitary equivalence. More spectral data is needed together with some sign indicators to remove the unitary ambiguities. This work specifies the spectral and sign information required for a unique reconstruction of general matrices. More specifically, the spectral information consists of the spectra of the $N$ nested main minors of the original matrix of the sizes $1,2,\dots,N$. However, due to the complicated nature of the required sign data, improvements are needed in order to make the reconstruction procedure feasible. With this in mind, we restrict our attention to banded matrices where the amount of spectral data exceeds the number of the unknown matrix entries. It is shown that one can take advantage of this redundancy to guarantee unique reconstruction of {\it generic} matrices. The space of non-generic matrices is defined either via a set of polynomial equations or via a set of equations involving eigenvectors. Thus, the space of non-generic matrices has a positive co-dimension as a subspace of the space of all matrices. It is shown that one can optimize the ratio between redundancy and genericity by using the freedom of choice of the spectral information input. We demonstrate our constructions in detail for pentadiagonal matrices.

## Comments

33 pages

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/can-one-hear-a-matrix-recovering-a-real](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/can-one-hear-a-matrix-recovering-a-real)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{maciążek2021hear,
      title={Can one hear a matrix? Recovering a real symmetric matrix from its spectral data}, 
      author={Tomasz Maciążek and Uzy Smilansky},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01819},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={math-ph}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

