
# Comprehensive Energy Footprint Benchmarking of Strong Parallel Electrified Powertrain

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0243), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0243.pdf)

## Authors

- Aashrith Vishwanath
- Hamza Anwar
- Apurva Chunodkar
- Qadeer Ahmed

## Abstract

In this paper we present a benchmark solution with higher number of continuous and discrete states and control levers using validated powertrain component models, where DP fails due to exponential rise in the computation time. The problem involves 13 states and 4 control levers, with complex interactions between multiple subsystems. Some of these variables are discrete while some are continuous. Some have slow dynamics while some have fast dynamics. A novel three step PS3 algorithm which is presented in our prequel paper is used to obtain a near-optimal solution. PS3 algorithm makes use of pseudo spectral method for accurate state estimations. We present three scenarios where only fuel is minimized, only emissions are minimized and, lastly a combination of both fuel and emissions are minimized. All three cases are analyzed for their performance and computation time. The optimal compromise between fuel consumption and emissions are analyzed using a Pareto-front study. This large-scale powertrain optimization problem is solved for a P2 parallel hybrid architecture on a class 6 pick-up & delivery truck.

## Comments

Updated title, fixed typos

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{vishwanath2021comprehensive,
      title={Comprehensive Energy Footprint Benchmarking of Strong Parallel Electrified Powertrain}, 
      author={Aashrith Vishwanath and Hamza Anwar and Apurva Chunodkar and Qadeer Ahmed},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00243},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.SY}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

