
# Sparse, Efficient, and Semantic Mixture Invariant Training: Taming In-the-Wild Unsupervised Sound Separation

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0847), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0847.pdf)

## Authors

- Scott Wisdom
- Aren Jansen
- Ron J. Weiss
- Hakan Erdogan
- John R. Hershey

## Abstract

Supervised neural network training has led to significant progress on single-channel sound separation. This approach relies on ground truth isolated sources, which precludes scaling to widely available mixture data and limits progress on open-domain tasks. The recent mixture invariant training (MixIT) method enables training on in-the wild data; however, it suffers from two outstanding problems. First, it produces models which tend to over-separate, producing more output sources than are present in the input. Second, the exponential computational complexity of the MixIT loss limits the number of feasible output sources. These problems interact: increasing the number of output sources exacerbates over-separation. In this paper we address both issues. To combat over-separation we introduce new losses: sparsity losses that favor fewer output sources and a covariance loss that discourages correlated outputs. We also experiment with a semantic classification loss by predicting weak class labels for each mixture. To extend MixIT to larger numbers of sources, we introduce an efficient approximation using a fast least-squares solution, projected onto the MixIT constraint set. Our experiments show that the proposed losses curtail over-separation and improve overall performance. The best performance is achieved using larger numbers of output sources, enabled by our efficient MixIT loss, combined with sparsity losses to prevent over-separation. On the FUSS test set, we achieve over 13 dB in multi-source SI-SNR improvement, while boosting single-source reconstruction SI-SNR by over 17 dB.

## Comments

5 pages, 1 figure. submitted to WASPAA 2021

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{wisdom2021sparse,
      title={Sparse, Efficient, and Semantic Mixture Invariant Training: Taming In-the-Wild Unsupervised Sound Separation}, 
      author={Scott Wisdom and Aren Jansen and Ron J. Weiss and Hakan Erdogan and John R. Hershey},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00847},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.AS}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

