
# Vacuum-gap transmon qubits realized using flip-chip technology

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0341), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0341.pdf)

## Authors

- Xuegang Li
- Yingshan Zhang
- Chuhong Yang
- Zhiyuan Li
- Junhua Wang
- Tang Su
- Mo Chen
- Yongchao Li
- Chengyao Li
- Zhenyu Mi
- Xuehui Liang
- Chenlu Wang
- Zhen Yang
- Yulong Feng
- Kehuan Linghu
- Huikai Xu
- Jiaxiu Han
- Weiyang Liu
- Peng Zhao
- Teng Ma
- Ruixia Wang
- Jingning Zhang
- Yu Song
- Pei Liu
- Ziting Wang
- Zhaohua Yang
- Guangming Xue
- Yirong Jin
- Haifeng Yu

## Abstract

Significant progress has been made in building large-scale superconducting quantum processors based on flip-chip technology. In this work, we use the flip-chip technology to realize a modified transmon qubit, donated as the "flipmon", whose large shunt capacitor is replaced by a vacuum-gap parallel plate capacitor. To further reduce the qubit footprint, we place one of the qubit pads and a single Josephson junction on the bottom chip and the other pad on the top chip which is galvanically connected with the single Josephson junction through an indium bump. The electric field participation ratio can arrive at nearly 53% in air when the vacuum-gap is about 5 microns, and thus potentially leading to a lower dielectric loss. The coherence times of the flipmons are measured in the range of 30-60 microseconds, which are comparable with that of traditional transmons with similar fabrication processes. The electric field simulation indicates that the metal-air interface's participation ratio increases significantly and may dominate the qubit's decoherence. This suggests that more careful surface treatment needs to be considered. No evidence shows that the indium bumps inside the flipmons cause significant decoherence. With well-designed geometry and good surface treatment, the coherence of the flipmons can be further improved.

## Comments

There are 9 pages and 6 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{li2021vacuumgap,
      title={Vacuum-gap transmon qubits realized using flip-chip technology}, 
      author={Xuegang Li and Yingshan Zhang and Chuhong Yang and Zhiyuan Li and Junhua Wang and Tang Su and Mo Chen and Yongchao Li and Chengyao Li and Zhenyu Mi and Xuehui Liang and Chenlu Wang and Zhen Yang and Yulong Feng and Kehuan Linghu and Huikai Xu and Jiaxiu Han and Weiyang Liu and Peng Zhao and Teng Ma and Ruixia Wang and Jingning Zhang and Yu Song and Pei Liu and Ziting Wang and Zhaohua Yang and Guangming Xue and Yirong Jin and Haifeng Yu},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00341},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={quant-ph}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

