
# A Hint of a Low-Energy Excess in Cosmic-Ray Fluorine

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01626), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01626.pdf)

## Authors

- M. J. Boschini
- S. Della Torre
- M. Gervasi
- D. Grandi
- G. Johannesson
- G. La Vacca
- N. Masi
- I. V. Moskalenko
- S. Pensotti
- T. A. Porter
- L. Quadrani
- P. G. Rancoita
- D. Rozza
- M. Tacconi

## Abstract

Since its launch, the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer-02 (AMS-02) has delivered outstanding quality measurements of the spectra of cosmic-ray (CR) species, $\bar{p}$, $e^{\pm}$, and nuclei (H-O, Ne, Mg, Si, Fe), which resulted in a number of breakthroughs. The most recent AMS-02 result is the measurement of the spectrum of CR fluorine up to $\sim$2 TV. Given its very low solar system abundance, fluorine in CRs is thought to be mostly secondary, produced in fragmentations of heavier species, predominantly Ne, Mg, and Si. Similar to the best-measured secondary-to-primary boron to carbon nuclei ratio that is widely used to study the origin and propagation of CR species, the precise fluorine data would allow the origin of Si-group nuclei to be studied independently. Meanwhile, the secondary origin of CR fluorine has never been tested in a wide energy range due to the lack of accurate CR data. In this paper, we use the first ever precise measurements of the fluorine spectrum by AMS-02 together with ACE-CRIS and Voyager 1 data to actually test this paradigm. Our detailed modeling shows an excess below 10 GV in the fluorine spectrum that is most likely due to the primary fluorine component. We also provide an updated local interstellar spectrum (LIS) of fluorine in the rigidity range from few MV to $\sim$2 TV. Our calculations employ the self-consistent GalProp-HelMod framework that has proved to be a reliable tool in deriving the LIS of CR $\bar{p}$, $e^{-}$, and nuclei $Z\le28$.

## Comments

12 pages, 9 figures; submitted to ApJ

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/a-hint-of-a-low-energy-excess-in-cosmic-ray](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/a-hint-of-a-low-energy-excess-in-cosmic-ray)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{boschini2021hint,
      title={A Hint of a Low-Energy Excess in Cosmic-Ray Fluorine}, 
      author={M. J. Boschini and S. Della Torre and M. Gervasi and D. Grandi and G. Johannesson and G. La Vacca and N. Masi and I. V. Moskalenko and S. Pensotti and T. A. Porter and L. Quadrani and P. G. Rancoita and D. Rozza and M. Tacconi},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01626},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.HE}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

