
# Halfspace depth for general measures: The ray basis theorem and its consequences

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0616), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0616.pdf)

## Authors

- Petra Laketa
- Stanislav Nagy

## Abstract

The halfspace depth is a prominent tool of nonparametric multivariate analysis. The upper level sets of the depth, termed the trimmed regions of a measure, serve as a natural generalization of the quantiles and inter-quantile regions to higher-dimensional spaces. The smallest non-empty trimmed region, coined the halfspace median of a measure, generalizes the median. We focus on the (inverse) ray basis theorem for the halfspace depth, a crucial theoretical result that characterizes the halfspace median by a covering property. First, a novel elementary proof of that statement is provided, under minimal assumptions on the underlying measure. The proof applies not only to the median, but also to other trimmed regions. Motivated by the technical development of the amended ray basis theorem, we specify connections between the trimmed regions, floating bodies, and additional equi-affine convex sets related to the depth. As a consequence, minimal conditions for the strict monotonicity of the depth are obtained. Applications to the computation of the depth and robust estimation are outlined.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{laketa2021halfspace,
      title={Halfspace depth for general measures: The ray basis theorem and its consequences}, 
      author={Petra Laketa and Stanislav Nagy},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00616},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={math.ST}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

