
# Language-Driven Image Style Transfer

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0178), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0178.pdf)

## Authors

- Tsu-Jui Fu
- Xin Eric Wang
- William Yang Wang

## Abstract

Despite having promising results, style transfer, which requires preparing style images in advance, may result in lack of creativity and accessibility. Following human instruction, on the other hand, is the most natural way to perform artistic style transfer that can significantly improve controllability for visual effect applications. We introduce a new task -- language-driven image style transfer (\texttt{LDIST}) -- to manipulate the style of a content image, guided by a text. We propose contrastive language visual artist (CLVA) that learns to extract visual semantics from style instructions and accomplish \texttt{LDIST} by the patch-wise style discriminator. The discriminator considers the correlation between language and patches of style images or transferred results to jointly embed style instructions. CLVA further compares contrastive pairs of content image and style instruction to improve the mutual relativeness between transfer results. The transferred results from the same content image can preserve consistent content structures. Besides, they should present analogous style patterns from style instructions that contain similar visual semantics. The experiments show that our CLVA is effective and achieves superb transferred results on \texttt{LDIST}.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{fu2021languagedriven,
      title={Language-Driven Image Style Transfer}, 
      author={Tsu-Jui Fu and Xin Eric Wang and William Yang Wang},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00178},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

