
# Spontaneous symmetry breaking in the late Universe as an underlying cause for dark energy

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0843), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0843.pdf)

## Authors

- M. Sami
- Radouane Gannouji

## Abstract

Spontaneous symmetry breaking is the foundation of electroweak unification and serves as the integral part of model building beyond the standard model of particle physics. In this paper, we review the efforts to obtain late cosmic acceleration from spontaneous symmetry breaking in the Universe at large scales. This phenomenon is best understood through Ginzburg-Landau theory of phase transitions which we briefly describe. Hereafter, we present elements of spontaneous symmetry breaking in relativistic field theory. We then discuss the "symmetron" scenario based upon symmetry breaking in the late Universe which is realized by using a specific form of conformal coupling. However, the model is faced with "NO GO" to late time acceleration due to local gravity constraints. We argue that the problem can be circumvented by using the massless $\lambda \phi^4$ theory coupled to massive neutrino matter. In this case, coupling builds up dynamically at late stages of evolution giving rise to $Z_2$ symmetry breaking; coupling vanishes at early times keeping $Z_2$ symmetry intact. As a result, the field picks a non-zero mass in the true ground state proportional to neutrino mass, thereby, with little adjustments, one can achieve late time acceleration in this framework.

## Comments

Invited review by IJMPD

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sami2021spontaneous,
      title={Spontaneous symmetry breaking in the late Universe as an underlying cause for dark energy}, 
      author={M. Sami and Radouane Gannouji},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00843},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={gr-qc}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

