
# A Question of Time: Revisiting the Use of Recursive Filtering for Temporal Calibration of Multisensor Systems

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0391), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0391.pdf)

## Authors

- Jonathan Kelly
- Christopher Grebe
- Matthew Giamou

## Abstract

We examine the problem of time delay estimation, or temporal calibration, in the context of multisensor data fusion. Differences in processing intervals and other factors typically lead to a relative delay between measurement from two disparate sensors. Correct (optimal) data fusion demands that the relative delay must either be known in advance or identified online. There have been several recent proposals in the literature to determine the delay parameter using recursive, causal filters such as the extended Kalman filter (EKF). We carefully review this formulation and show that there are fundamental issues with the structure of the EKF (and related algorithms) when the delay is included in the filter state vector as a value to be estimated. These structural issues, in turn, leave recursive filters prone to bias and inconsistency. Our theoretical analysis is supported by simulation studies that demonstrate the implications in terms of filter performance; although tuning of the filter noise variances may reduce the chance of inconsistency or divergence, the underlying structural concerns remain. We offer brief suggestions for ways to maintain the computational efficiency of recursive filtering for temporal calibration while avoiding the drawbacks of the standard algorithms.

## Comments

Submitted to the 2021 IEEE International Conference on Multisensor Fusion and Integration (MFI 2021)

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{kelly2021question,
      title={A Question of Time: Revisiting the Use of Recursive Filtering for Temporal Calibration of Multisensor Systems}, 
      author={Jonathan Kelly and Christopher Grebe and Matthew Giamou},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00391},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.SY}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

