
# J-PLUS: A first glimpse at spectrophotometry of asteroids -- The MOOJa catalog

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0713), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0713.pdf)

## Authors

- David Morate
- Jorge Marcio Carvano
- Alvaro Alvarez-Candal
- Mário De Prá
- Javier Licandro
- Andrés Galarza
- Max Mahlke
- Enrique Solano-Márquez
- Javier Cenarro
- David Cristóbal-Hornillos
- Carlos Hernández-Monteagudo
- Carlos López-Sanjuan
- Antonio Marín-Franch
- Mariano Moles
- Jesús Varela
- Héctor Vázquez Ramió
- Jailson Alcaniz
- Renato Dupke
- Alessandro Ederoclite
- Claudia Mendes de Oliveira
- Laerte Sodré Jr. 10
- Raul E. Angulo
- Francisco M. Jiménez-Esteban
- Beatriz B. Siffert
- , the
- J-PLUS collaboration

## Abstract

Context: The Javalambre Photometric Local Universe Survey (J-PLUS) is an observational campaign that aims to obtain photometry in 12 ultraviolet-visible filters (0.3-1 {\mu}m) of approximately 8 500 deg{^2} of the sky observable from Javalambre (Teruel, Spain). Due to its characteristics and strategy of observation, this survey will let us analyze a great number of Solar System small bodies, with improved spectrophotometric resolution with respect to previous large-area photometric surveys in optical wavelengths. Aims: The main goal of this work is to present here the first catalog of magnitudes and colors of minor bodies of the Solar System compiled using the first data release (DR1) of the J-PLUS observational campaign: the Moving Objects Observed from Javalambre (MOOJa) catalog. Methods: Using the compiled photometric data we obtained very-low-resolution reflectance (photospectra) spectra of the asteroids. We first used a {\sigma}-clipping algorithm in order to remove outliers and clean the data. We then devised a method to select the optimal solar colors in the J-PLUS photometric system. These solar colors were computed using two different approaches: on one hand, we used different spectra of the Sun, convolved with the filter transmissions of the J-PLUS system, and on the other, we selected a group of solar-type stars in the J-PLUS DR1, according to their computed stellar parameters. Finally, we used the solar colors to obtain the reflectance spectra of the asteroids. Results: We present photometric data in the J-PLUS filters for a total of 3 122 minor bodies (3 666 before outlier removal), and we discuss the main issues of the data, as well as some guidelines to solve them

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{morate2021jplus,
      title={J-PLUS: A first glimpse at spectrophotometry of asteroids -- The MOOJa catalog}, 
      author={David Morate and Jorge Marcio Carvano and Alvaro Alvarez-Candal and Mário De Prá and Javier Licandro and Andrés Galarza and Max Mahlke and Enrique Solano-Márquez and Javier Cenarro and David Cristóbal-Hornillos and Carlos Hernández-Monteagudo and Carlos López-Sanjuan and Antonio Marín-Franch and Mariano Moles and Jesús Varela and Héctor Vázquez Ramió and Jailson Alcaniz and Renato Dupke and Alessandro Ederoclite and Claudia Mendes de Oliveira and Laerte Sodré Jr. 10 and Raul E. Angulo and Francisco M. Jiménez-Esteban and Beatriz B. Siffert and the J-PLUS collaboration},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00713},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.EP}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

