
# Comprehensive Validation of Automated Whole Body Skeletal Muscle, Adipose Tissue, and Bone Segmentation from 3D CT images for Body Composition Analysis: Towards Extended Body Composition

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0652), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0652.pdf)

## Authors

- Da Ma
- Vincent Chow
- Karteek Popuri
- Mirza Faisal Beg

## Abstract

The latest advances in computer-assisted precision medicine are making it feasible to move from population-wide models that are useful to discover aggregate patterns that hold for group-based analysis to patient-specific models that can drive patient-specific decisions with regard to treatment choices, and predictions of outcomes of treatment. Body Composition is recognized as an important driver and risk factor for a wide variety of diseases, as well as a predictor of individual patient-specific clinical outcomes to treatment choices or surgical interventions. 3D CT images are routinely acquired in the oncological worklows and deliver accurate rendering of internal anatomy and therefore can be used opportunistically to assess the amount of skeletal muscle and adipose tissue compartments. Powerful tools of artificial intelligence such as deep learning are making it feasible now to segment the entire 3D image and generate accurate measurements of all internal anatomy. These will enable the overcoming of the severe bottleneck that existed previously, namely, the need for manual segmentation, which was prohibitive to scale to the hundreds of 2D axial slices that made up a 3D volumetric image. Automated tools such as presented here will now enable harvesting whole-body measurements from 3D CT or MRI images, leading to a new era of discovery of the drivers of various diseases based on individual tissue, organ volume, shape, and functional status. These measurements were hitherto unavailable thereby limiting the field to a very small and limited subset. These discoveries and the potential to perform individual image segmentation with high speed and accuracy are likely to lead to the incorporation of these 3D measures into individual specific treatment planning models related to nutrition, aging, chemotoxicity, surgery and survival after the onset of a major disease such as cancer.

## Comments

This paper is based on concepts presented at the NIH Body Composition and Cancer Outcomes Research Webinar Series on December 17th, 2020 by Mirza Faisal Beg titled "Automating Body Composition from Routinely Acquired CT images - towards 3D measurements". The talk is archived [here]( this https URL )

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{ma2021comprehensive,
      title={Comprehensive Validation of Automated Whole Body Skeletal Muscle, Adipose Tissue, and Bone Segmentation from 3D CT images for Body Composition Analysis: Towards Extended Body Composition}, 
      author={Da Ma and Vincent Chow and Karteek Popuri and Mirza Faisal Beg},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00652},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

