
# The Interstellar Medium in young supernova remnants: key to the production of cosmic X-rays and $γ$-rays

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0708), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0708.pdf)

## Authors

- Hidetoshi Sano
- Yasuo Fukui

## Abstract

We review recent progress in elucidating the relationship between high-energy radiation and the interstellar medium (ISM) in young supernova remnants (SNRs) with ages of $\sim$2000 yr, focusing in particular on RX J1713.7$-$3946 and RCW 86. Both SNRs emit strong nonthermal X-rays and TeV $\gamma$-rays, and they contain clumpy distributions of interstellar gas that includes both atomic and molecular hydrogen. We find that shock-cloud interactions provide a viable explanation for the spatial correlation between the X-rays and ISM. In these interactions, the supernova shocks hit the typically pc-scale dense cores, generating a highly turbulent velocity field that amplifies the magnetic field up to 0.1-1 mG. This amplification leads to enhanced nonthermal synchrotron emission around the clumps, whereas the cosmic-ray electrons do not penetrate the clumps. Accordingly, the nonthermal X-rays exhibit a spatial distribution similar to that of the ISM on the pc scale, while they are anticorrelated at sub-pc scales. These results predict that hadronic $\gamma$-rays can be emitted from the dense cores, resulting in a spatial correspondence between the $\gamma$-rays and the ISM. The current pc-scale resolution of $\gamma$-ray observations is too low to resolve this correspondence. Future $\gamma$-ray observations with the Cherenkov Telescope Array will be able to resolve the sub-pc-scale $\gamma$-ray distribution and provide clues to the origin of these cosmic $\gamma$-rays.

## Comments

18 pages, 15 figures, accepted for publication in Astrophysics and Space Science

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sano2021interstellar,
      title={The Interstellar Medium in young supernova remnants: key to the production of cosmic X-rays and $\gamma$-rays}, 
      author={Hidetoshi Sano and Yasuo Fukui},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00708},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.HE}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

