
# Pattern Discovery in Time Series with Byte Pair Encoding

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0614), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0614.pdf)

## Authors

- Nazgol Tavabi
- Kristina Lerman

## Abstract

The growing popularity of wearable sensors has generated large quantities of temporal physiological and activity data. Ability to analyze this data offers new opportunities for real-time health monitoring and forecasting. However, temporal physiological data presents many analytic challenges: the data is noisy, contains many missing values, and each series has a different length. Most methods proposed for time series analysis and classification do not handle datasets with these characteristics nor do they offer interpretability and explainability, a critical requirement in the health domain. We propose an unsupervised method for learning representations of time series based on common patterns identified within them. The patterns are, interpretable, variable in length, and extracted using Byte Pair Encoding compression technique. In this way the method can capture both long-term and short-term dependencies present in the data. We show that this method applies to both univariate and multivariate time series and beats state-of-the-art approaches on a real world dataset collected from wearable sensors.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{tavabi2021pattern,
      title={Pattern Discovery in Time Series with Byte Pair Encoding}, 
      author={Nazgol Tavabi and Kristina Lerman},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00614},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.SP}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

