
# Few-Shot Partial-Label Learning

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0984), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0984.pdf)

## Authors

- Yunfeng Zhao
- Guoxian Yu
- Lei Liu
- Zhongmin Yan
- Lizhen Cui
- Carlotta Domeniconi

## Abstract

Partial-label learning (PLL) generally focuses on inducing a noise-tolerant multi-class classifier by training on overly-annotated samples, each of which is annotated with a set of labels, but only one is the valid label. A basic promise of existing PLL solutions is that there are sufficient partial-label (PL) samples for training. However, it is more common than not to have just few PL samples at hand when dealing with new tasks. Furthermore, existing few-shot learning algorithms assume precise labels of the support set; as such, irrelevant labels may seriously mislead the meta-learner and thus lead to a compromised performance. How to enable PLL under a few-shot learning setting is an important problem, but not yet well studied. In this paper, we introduce an approach called FsPLL (Few-shot PLL). FsPLL first performs adaptive distance metric learning by an embedding network and rectifying prototypes on the tasks previously encountered. Next, it calculates the prototype of each class of a new task in the embedding network. An unseen example can then be classified via its distance to each prototype. Experimental results on widely-used few-shot datasets (Omniglot and miniImageNet) demonstrate that our FsPLL can achieve a superior performance than the state-of-the-art methods across different settings, and it needs fewer samples for quickly adapting to new tasks.

## Comments

Accepted by International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI2021)

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{zhao2021fewshot,
      title={Few-Shot Partial-Label Learning}, 
      author={Yunfeng Zhao and Guoxian Yu and Lei Liu and Zhongmin Yan and Lizhen Cui and Carlotta Domeniconi},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00984},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

