
# Decision Towards Green Careers and Sustainable Development

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0465), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0465.pdf)

## Authors

- Adam Sulich
- Malgorzata Rutkowska
- Uma Shankar Singh

## Abstract

The graduates careers are the most spectacular and visible outcome of excellent university education. This is also important for the university performance assessment when its graduates can easily find jobs in the labor market. The information about graduates matching their qualifications and fields of studies versus undertaken employment, creates an important set of data for future students and employers to be analyzed. Additionally, there is business environment pressure to transform workplaces and whole organizations towards a more green and sustainable form. Green Jobs (GJ) are the elements of the whole economic transformation. This change is based on the green qualifications and green careers which translate theoretical assumptions into business language. Therefore, the choice of future career path is based on specified criteria, which were examined by surveys performed among graduates by the career office at Wroclaw University of Technology (WUT) in Poland. The aim of this article was to address the question about the most significant criteria of green career paths among graduates of WUT in 2019. Special attention was paid to the GJ understood as green careers. In this article, the multi-criteria Bellinger method was explained, presented, and then used to analyze chosen factors of choice graduates career paths and then compared with Gale-Shapley algorithm results in a comparative analysis. Future research can develop a graduate profile willing to be employed in GJ.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sulich2021decision,
      title={Decision Towards Green Careers and Sustainable Development}, 
      author={Adam Sulich and Malgorzata Rutkowska and Uma Shankar Singh},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00465},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={econ.GN}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

