
# AAPM DL-Sparse-View CT Challenge Submission Report: Designing an Iterative Network for Fanbeam-CT with Unknown Geometry

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0280), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0280.pdf)

## Authors

- Martin Genzel
- Jan Macdonald
- Maximilian März

## Abstract

This report is dedicated to a short motivation and description of our contribution to the AAPM DL-Sparse-View CT Challenge (team name: "robust-and-stable"). The task is to recover breast model phantom images from limited view fanbeam measurements using data-driven reconstruction techniques. The challenge is distinctive in the sense that participants are provided with a collection of ground truth images and their noiseless, subsampled sinograms (as well as the associated limited view filtered backprojection images), but not with the actual forward model. Therefore, our approach first estimates the fanbeam geometry in a data-driven geometric calibration step. In a subsequent two-step procedure, we design an iterative end-to-end network that enables the computation of near-exact solutions.

## Comments

This is a technical report of a method participating in a not yet finished challenge. Therefore, it does not contain any final results. In particular, the reported reconstruction errors are only with respect to our own validation split of the provided training data. Once the official challenge report is released, these values will be updated with the results from the actual test set

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{genzel2021aapm,
      title={AAPM DL-Sparse-View CT Challenge Submission Report: Designing an Iterative Network for Fanbeam-CT with Unknown Geometry}, 
      author={Martin Genzel and Jan Macdonald and Maximilian März},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00280},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

