
# One Year in the Life of Young Suns: Data Constrained Corona-Wind Model of kappa1 Ceti

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01284), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01284.pdf)

## Authors

- Vladimir S. Airapetian
- Meng Jin
- Theresa Lueftinger
- Sudesha Boro Saikia
- Oleg Kochukhov
- Manuel Guedel
- Bart Van Der Holst
- W. Manchester IV

## Abstract

The young magnetically active solar-like stars are efficient generators of ionizing radiation in the form of X-ray and Extreme UV (EUV) flux, stellar wind and eruptive events. These outputs are the critical factors affecting atmospheric escape and chemistry of (exo)planets around active stars. While X-ray fluxes and surface magnetic fields can be derived from observations, the EUV emission and wind mass fluxes, Coronal Mass Ejections and associated Stellar Energetic Particle events cannot be directly observed. Here, we present the results of a three-dimensional magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) model with inputs constrained by spectropolarimetric data, HST/STIS Far UV, X-ray data data and stellar magnetic maps reconstructed at two epochs separated by 11 months. The simulations show that over the course of the year, the global stellar corona had undergone a drastic transition from a simple dipole-like to a tilted dipole with multipole field components, and thus, provided favorable conditions for Corotating Interaction Events (CIRs) that drive strong shocks. The dynamic pressure exerted by CIRs are 1300 times larger than those observed from the Sun and can contribute to the atmospheric erosion of early Venus, Earth, Mars and young Earth-like exoplanets. Our data-constrained MHD model provides the framework to model coronal environments of G-M planet hosting dwarfs. The model outputs can serve as a realistic input for exoplanetary atmospheric models to evaluate the impact of stellar coronal emission, stellar winds and CIRs on their atmospheric escape and chemistry that can be tested in the upcoming JWST and ground-based observations.

## Comments

28 pages, 8 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/one-year-in-the-life-of-young-suns-data](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/one-year-in-the-life-of-young-suns-data)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{airapetian2021year,
      title={One Year in the Life of Young Suns: Data Constrained Corona-Wind Model of kappa1 Ceti}, 
      author={Vladimir S. Airapetian and Meng Jin and Theresa Lueftinger and Sudesha Boro Saikia and Oleg Kochukhov and Manuel Guedel and Bart Van Der Holst and W. Manchester IV au2},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01284},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={astro-ph.SR}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

