
# Generalized Domain Adaptation

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01656), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01656.pdf)

## Authors

- Yu Mitsuzumi
- Go Irie
- Daiki Ikami
- Takashi Shibata

## Abstract

Many variants of unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) problems have been proposed and solved individually. Its side effect is that a method that works for one variant is often ineffective for or not even applicable to another, which has prevented practical applications. In this paper, we give a general representation of UDA problems, named Generalized Domain Adaptation (GDA). GDA covers the major variants as special cases, which allows us to organize them in a comprehensive framework. Moreover, this generalization leads to a new challenging setting where existing methods fail, such as when domain labels are unknown, and class labels are only partially given to each domain. We propose a novel approach to the new setting. The key to our approach is self-supervised class-destructive learning, which enables the learning of class-invariant representations and domain-adversarial classifiers without using any domain labels. Extensive experiments using three benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art UDA methods in the new setting and that it is competitive in existing UDA variations as well.

## Comments

Accepted by CVPR 2021. Code is available at this https URL

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/generalized-domain-adaptation](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/generalized-domain-adaptation)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{mitsuzumi2021generalized,
      title={Generalized Domain Adaptation}, 
      author={Yu Mitsuzumi and Go Irie and Daiki Ikami and Takashi Shibata},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01656},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

