
# Feedback Interconnected Mean-Field Estimation and Control

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0899), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0899.pdf)

## Authors

- Tongjia Zheng
- Qing Han
- Hai Lin

## Abstract

Swarm robotic systems have foreseeable applications in the near future. Recently, there has been an increasing amount of literature that employs mean-field partial differential equations (PDEs) to model the time-evolution of the probability density of swarm robotic systems and uses mean-field feedback to design stable control laws that act on individuals such that their density converges to a target profile. However, it remains largely unexplored considering problems of how to estimate the mean-field density, how the density estimation algorithms affect the control performance, and whether the estimation performance in turn depends on the control algorithms. In this work, we focus on studying the interplay of these algorithms. Specially, we propose new mean-field control laws which use the real-time density and its gradient as feedback, and prove that they are globally input-to-state stable (ISS) to estimation errors. Then, we design filtering algorithms to obtain estimates of the density and its gradient, and prove that these estimates are convergent assuming the control laws are known. Finally, we show that the feedback interconnection of these estimation and control algorithms is still globally ISS, which is attributed to the bilinearity of the mean-field PDE system. An agent-based simulation is included to verify the stability of these algorithms and their feedback interconnection.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{zheng2021feedback,
      title={Feedback Interconnected Mean-Field Estimation and Control}, 
      author={Tongjia Zheng and Qing Han and Hai Lin},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00899},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.SY}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

