
# Corona-Enabled Electrostatic Printing for Ultra-Fast R2R Manufacturing of Binder-Free Multifunctional E-Skins

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0870), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0870.pdf)

## Authors

- Long Wang
- Rui Kou
- Zhaoru Shang
- Chaoyi Zhu
- Ying Zhong

## Abstract

As essential components in intelligent systems, printed soft electronics (PSEs) are playing crucial roles in public health, national security, and economics. Innovations in printing technologies are required to promote the broad application of high-performance PSEs at a low cost. However, current printing techniques are still facing long-lasting challenges in addressing the conflict between printing speed and performance. To overcome this challenge, we developed a new corona-enabled electrostatic printing (CEP) technique for ultra-fast (milliseconds) roll-to-roll (R2R) manufacturing of binder-free multifunctional e-skins. The printing capability and controllability of CEP were investigated through parametric studies and microstructure observation. The electric field generation, material transfer, and particle amount and size selecting mechanisms were numerically and experimentally studied. CEP printed graphene e-skins were demonstrated to possess outstanding strain sensing performance. The binder-free feature of the CEP-assembled networks enables them to provide pressure sensitivity as low as 2.5 Pa, and capability to detect acoustic signals of hundreds of hertz in frequency. Furthermore, the CEP technique was utilized to pattern different types of functional materials (e.g., graphene and thermochromic polymers) onto different substrates (e.g., tape and textile). Overall, this study demonstrated that CEP can be a novel contactless and ultrafast manufacturing platform compatible with R2R process for fabricating high-performance, scalable, and low-cost soft electronics.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{wang2021coronaenabled,
      title={Corona-Enabled Electrostatic Printing for Ultra-Fast R2R Manufacturing of Binder-Free Multifunctional E-Skins}, 
      author={Long Wang and Rui Kou and Zhaoru Shang and Chaoyi Zhu and Ying Zhong},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00870},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={physics.app-ph}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

