
# Characterization of the CMS Endcap Timing Layer readout chip prototype with charge injection

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0174), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0174.pdf)

## Authors

- H. Sun
- D. Gong
- W. Zhang
- C. Edwards
- c G. Huang
- X. Huang
- C. Liu
- T. Liu
- T. Liu
- J. Olsen
- Q. Sun
- J. Wu
- J. Ye
- L. Zhang

## Abstract

We present the characterization of a readout Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) for the CMS Endcap Timing Layer (ETL) of the High-Luminosity LHC upgrade with charge injection. The ASIC, named ETROC and developed in a 65 nm CMOS technology, reads out a 16x16 pixel matrix of the Low-Gain Avalanche Detector (LGAD). The jitter contribution from ETROC is required to be below 40 ps to achieve the 50 ps overall time resolution per hit. The analog readout circuits in ETROC consist of the preamplifier and the discriminator. The preamplifier handles the LGAD charge signal with the most probable value of around 15 fC. The discriminator generates the digital pulse, which provides the Time-Of-Arrival (TOA, leading edge) and Time-Over-Threshold (TOT, pulse width) information. The prototype of ETROC (ETROC0) that implements a single channel of analog readout circuits has been evaluated with charge injection. The jitter of the analog readout circuits, measured from the discriminator's leading edge, is better than 16 ps for a charge larger than 15 fC with the sensor capacitance. The time walk resulting from different pulse heights can be corrected using the TOT measurement. The time resolution distribution has a standard deviation of 29 ps after the time-walk correction from the charge injection. At room temperature, the preamplifier's power consumption is measured to be 0.74 mW and 1.53 mW per pixel in the low- and high-power mode, respectively. The measured power consumption of the discriminator is 0.84 mW per pixel. With the ASIC alone or the LGAD sensor, The characterization performances fulfill the ETL's challenging requirements.

## Comments

15 pages, 10 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{sun2021characterization,
      title={Characterization of the CMS Endcap Timing Layer readout chip prototype with charge injection}, 
      author={H. Sun and D. Gong and W. Zhang and C. Edwards and c G. Huang and X. Huang and C. Liu and T. Liu and T. Liu and J. Olsen and Q. Sun and J. Wu and J. Ye and L. Zhang},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00174},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={physics.ins-det}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

