
# When Vision Transformers Outperform ResNets without Pretraining or Strong Data Augmentations

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01548), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01548.pdf)

## Authors

- Xiangning Chen
- Cho-Jui Hsieh
- Boqing Gong

## Abstract

Vision Transformers (ViTs) and MLPs signal further efforts on replacing hand-wired features or inductive biases with general-purpose neural architectures. Existing works empower the models by massive data, such as large-scale pretraining and/or repeated strong data augmentations, and still report optimization-related problems (e.g., sensitivity to initialization and learning rate). Hence, this paper investigates ViTs and MLP-Mixers from the lens of loss geometry, intending to improve the models' data efficiency at training and generalization at inference. Visualization and Hessian reveal extremely sharp local minima of converged models. By promoting smoothness with a recently proposed sharpness-aware optimizer, we substantially improve the accuracy and robustness of ViTs and MLP-Mixers on various tasks spanning supervised, adversarial, contrastive, and transfer learning (e.g., +5.3\% and +11.0\% top-1 accuracy on ImageNet for ViT-B/16 and Mixer-B/16, respectively, with the simple Inception-style preprocessing). We show that the improved smoothness attributes to sparser active neurons in the first few layers. The resultant ViTs outperform ResNets of similar size and throughput when trained from scratch on ImageNet without large-scale pretraining or strong data augmentations. They also possess more perceptive attention maps.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/when-vision-transformers-outperform-resnets](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/when-vision-transformers-outperform-resnets)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{chen2021vision,
      title={When Vision Transformers Outperform ResNets without Pretraining or Strong Data Augmentations}, 
      author={Xiangning Chen and Cho-Jui Hsieh and Boqing Gong},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01548},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

