
# Adversarial Defense for Automatic Speaker Verification by Self-Supervised Learning

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0273), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0273.pdf)

## Authors

- Haibin Wu
- Xu Li
- Andy T. Liu
- Zhiyong Wu
- Helen Meng
- Hung-yi Lee

## Abstract

Previous works have shown that automatic speaker verification (ASV) is seriously vulnerable to malicious spoofing attacks, such as replay, synthetic speech, and recently emerged adversarial attacks. Great efforts have been dedicated to defending ASV against replay and synthetic speech; however, only a few approaches have been explored to deal with adversarial attacks. All the existing approaches to tackle adversarial attacks for ASV require the knowledge for adversarial samples generation, but it is impractical for defenders to know the exact attack algorithms that are applied by the in-the-wild attackers. This work is among the first to perform adversarial defense for ASV without knowing the specific attack algorithms. Inspired by self-supervised learning models (SSLMs) that possess the merits of alleviating the superficial noise in the inputs and reconstructing clean samples from the interrupted ones, this work regards adversarial perturbations as one kind of noise and conducts adversarial defense for ASV by SSLMs. Specifically, we propose to perform adversarial defense from two perspectives: 1) adversarial perturbation purification and 2) adversarial perturbation detection. Experimental results show that our detection module effectively shields the ASV by detecting adversarial samples with an accuracy of around 80%. Moreover, since there is no common metric for evaluating the adversarial defense performance for ASV, this work also formalizes evaluation metrics for adversarial defense considering both purification and detection based approaches into account. We sincerely encourage future works to benchmark their approaches based on the proposed evaluation framework.

## Comments

Submitted to TASLP on 03 May 2021

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{wu2021adversarial,
      title={Adversarial Defense for Automatic Speaker Verification by Self-Supervised Learning}, 
      author={Haibin Wu and Xu Li and Andy T. Liu and Zhiyong Wu and Helen Meng and Hung-yi Lee},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00273},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.SD}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

