
# Coupler-Assisted Controlled-Phase Gate with Enhanced Adiabaticity

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0725), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0725.pdf)

## Authors

- Ji Chu
- Fei Yan

## Abstract

High-fidelity two-qubit entangling gates are essential building blocks for fault-tolerant quantum computers. Over the past decade, tremendous efforts have been made to develop scalable high-fidelity two-qubit gates with superconducting quantum circuits. Recently, an easy-to-scale controlled-phase gate scheme that utilizes the tunable-coupling architecture with fixed-frequency qubits [Phys. Rev. Lett. 125, 240502; Phys. Rev. Lett. 125, 240503] has been demonstrated with high fidelity and attracted broad interest. However, in-depth understanding of the underlying mechanism is still missing, preventing us from fully exploiting its potential. Here we present a comprehensive theoretical study, explaining the origin of the high-contrast ZZ interaction. Based on improved understanding, we develop a general yet convenient method for shaping an adiabatic pulse in a multilevel system, and identify how to optimize the gate performance from design. Given state-of-the-art coherence properties, we expect the scheme to potentially achieve a two-qubit gate error rate near $10^{-5}$, which would drastically speed up the progress towards fault-tolerant quantum computation.

## Comments

22 pages, 11 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{chu2021couplerassisted,
      title={Coupler-Assisted Controlled-Phase Gate with Enhanced Adiabaticity}, 
      author={Ji Chu and Fei Yan},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00725},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={quant-ph}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

