
# High Resolution Time-Frequency Generation with Generative Adversarial Networks

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0668), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0668.pdf)

## Authors

- Zeynel Deprem
- A. Enis Çetin

## Abstract

Signal representation in Time-Frequency (TF) domain is valuable in many applications including radar imaging and inverse synthetic aparture radar. TF representation allows us to identify signal components or features in a mixed time and frequency plane. There are several well-known tools, such as Wigner-Ville Distribution (WVD), Short-Time Fourier Transform (STFT) and various other variants for such a purpose. The main requirement for a TF representation tool is to give a high-resolution view of the signal such that the signal components or features are identifiable. A commonly used method is the reassignment process which reduces the cross-terms by artificially moving smoothed WVD values from their actual location to the center of the gravity for that region. In this article, we propose a novel reassignment method using the Conditional Generative Adversarial Network (CGAN). We train a CGAN to perform the reassignment process. Through examples, it is shown that the method generates high-resolution TF representations which are better than the current reassignment methods.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{deprem2021high,
      title={High Resolution Time-Frequency Generation with Generative Adversarial Networks}, 
      author={Zeynel Deprem and A. Enis Çetin},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00668},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.SP}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

