
# Evolution of spherical overdensity in Chaplygin gas model

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0900), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0900.pdf)

## Authors

- Amin Rezaei Akbarieh
- Mohammad Ahmadi
- Yousef Izadi
- Shahabeddin M. Aslmarand
- Warner A. Miller

## Abstract

Even though many scalar field models of dark energy have been considered in the literature, there is another interesting class of dark energy models involving a fluid known as a Chaplygin gas. In addition to describing the dark energy, both scalar-tensor model and the Chaplygin gas model are suitable candidates for explaining the spherical cosmological collapse. One of the most well-known scalar field models is the quintessence model, which was first introduced to explain an accelerating expanding universe. Using a special form of the quintessence model that is equivalent to Chaplygin gas, we describe evolution of a spherical collapse. We study the cosmological properties of the quintessence field with a special potential. In addition to the quintessence model, that can be converted into a Chaplygin gas model in a particular case, we claim that the fixed-potential tachyonic model is equivalent to the Chaplygin gas model. In this work, we obtain the spherical collapse parameters: the virialized overdensity parameters, radius, the energy density at the turnaround moment, etc. We compare the results of the proposed model with the standard model of cosmology and the Einstein-de Sitter model. We show that the formation of the large-scale structures within the framework of a Chaplygin gas model happens earlier than predicted in the standard model.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{akbarieh2021evolution,
      title={Evolution of spherical overdensity in Chaplygin gas model}, 
      author={Amin Rezaei Akbarieh and Mohammad Ahmadi and Yousef Izadi and Shahabeddin M. Aslmarand and Warner A. Miller},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00900},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={gr-qc}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

