
# Asymptotics of Sequential Composite Hypothesis Testing under Probabilistic Constraints

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0896), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0896.pdf)

## Authors

- Jiachun Pan
- Yonglong Li
- Vincent Y. F. Tan

## Abstract

We consider the sequential composite binary hypothesis testing problem in which one of the hypotheses is governed by a single distribution while the other is governed by a family of distributions whose parameters belong to a known set $\Gamma$. We would like to design a test to decide which hypothesis is in effect. Under the constraints that the probabilities that the length of the test, a stopping time, exceeds $n$ are bounded by a certain threshold $\epsilon$, we obtain certain fundamental limits on the asymptotic behavior of the sequential test as $n$ tends to infinity. Assuming that $\Gamma$ is a convex and compact set, we obtain the set of all first-order error exponents for the problem. We also prove a strong converse. Additionally, we obtain the set of second-order error exponents under the assumption that $\mathcal{X}$ is a finite alphabet. In the proof of second-order asymptotics, a main technical contribution is the derivation of a central limit-type result for a maximum of an uncountable set of log-likelihood ratios under suitable conditions. This result may be of independent interest. We also show that some important statistical models satisfy the conditions.

## Comments

The paper was presented in part at the 2021 International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT). It was submitted to Transactions on Information Theory

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{pan2021asymptotics,
      title={Asymptotics of Sequential Composite Hypothesis Testing under Probabilistic Constraints}, 
      author={Jiachun Pan and Yonglong Li and Vincent Y. F. Tan},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00896},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.IT}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

