
# Multi-Soliton Dynamics of Anti-Self-Dual Gauge Fields

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.01353), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.01353.pdf)

## Authors

- Masashi Hamanaka
- Shan-Chi Huang

## Abstract

We study dynamics of multi-soliton solutions of anti-self-dual Yang-Mills equations for G=GL(2,C). The one-soliton solution has its principal peak of action density on a three-dimensional hyperplane, and therefore can be interpreted as a codimension-one soliton in four dimensional space. We call it the soliton wall. We prove that in the asymptotic region, the n-soliton solution possesses n isolated localized lumps of action density where each lump is a soliton wall. The n intersecting soliton walls preserve their shapes and "velocities" in the scattering process with position shifts of their peaks (known as the phase shifts). We calculate the phase shift factors explicitly and find that the action densities can be real-valued in the asymptotic region in four dimensional real spaces with signatures of the Euclidean, the Minkowski, and the Ultrahyperbolic. Furthermore, we show that the gauge group can be G=U(2) in the Ultrahyperbolic signature. This implies that the intersecting soliton walls are realized in all region in N=2 string theories. It is remarkable that quasideterminants play important roles in calculations and proofs.

## Comments

18 pages

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/multi-soliton-dynamics-of-anti-self-dual](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/multi-soliton-dynamics-of-anti-self-dual)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{hamanaka2021multisoliton,
      title={Multi-Soliton Dynamics of Anti-Self-Dual Gauge Fields}, 
      author={Masashi Hamanaka and Shan-Chi Huang},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.01353},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={hep-th}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

