
# Training ELECTRA Augmented with Multi-word Selection

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0139), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0139.pdf)

## Authors

- Jiaming Shen
- Jialu Liu
- Tianqi Liu
- Cong Yu
- Jiawei Han

## Abstract

Pre-trained text encoders such as BERT and its variants have recently achieved state-of-the-art performances on many NLP tasks. While being effective, these pre-training methods typically demand massive computation resources. To accelerate pre-training, ELECTRA trains a discriminator that predicts whether each input token is replaced by a generator. However, this new task, as a binary classification, is less semantically informative. In this study, we present a new text encoder pre-training method that improves ELECTRA based on multi-task learning. Specifically, we train the discriminator to simultaneously detect replaced tokens and select original tokens from candidate sets. We further develop two techniques to effectively combine all pre-training tasks: (1) using attention-based networks for task-specific heads, and (2) sharing bottom layers of the generator and the discriminator. Extensive experiments on GLUE and SQuAD datasets demonstrate both the effectiveness and the efficiency of our proposed method.

## Comments

Accepted in Findings of ACL 2021

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{shen2021training,
      title={Training ELECTRA Augmented with Multi-word Selection}, 
      author={Jiaming Shen and Jialu Liu and Tianqi Liu and Cong Yu and Jiawei Han},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00139},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

