
# Face-masks save us from SARS-CoV-2 transmission

[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.0375), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.0375.pdf)

## Authors

- Gholamhossein Bagheri
- Birte Thiede
- Bardia Hejazi
- Oliver Schlenczek
- Eberhard Bodenschatz

## Abstract

We present results on the infection risk from SARS-CoV-2 under different scenarios based on measured particle size-dependent mask penetration, measured total inward leakage, measured human aerosol emission for sizes from 10nm to 1mm, and re-hydration on inhalation. Well-mixed room models significantly underestimate the risk of infection for short and direct exposure. To this end, we estimate the upper bound for infection risk with the susceptible in the infectious exhalation cloud or wearing masks by having the masked susceptible inhale the entire exhalation of a masked infectious. Social distances without a mask, even at 3m between speaking individuals results in an upper bound of 90\% for risk of infection after a few minutes. If both wear a surgical mask, the risk of infection for the person speaking remains below 26\% even after 60 minutes. When both the infectious and susceptible wear a well-fitting FFP2 mask, the upper bound for risk is reduced by a factor of 60 compared to surgical masks. In both cases, face leakage is very important. For FFP2 masks, leakage is low in the nasal region and directed upward, which can be further reduced significantly by applying double-sided medical tape there. Considering that the calculated upper bound greatly overestimates the risk of infection, and the fact that with a poorly worn mask even the upper bound we calculated is very low, we conclude that wearing a mask, even with some leakage, provides excellent third party and self-protection.

## Comments



## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code



## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{bagheri2021facemasks,
      title={Face-masks save us from SARS-CoV-2 transmission}, 
      author={Gholamhossein Bagheri and Birte Thiede and Bardia Hejazi and Oliver Schlenczek and Eberhard Bodenschatz},
      year={2021},
      eprint={2106.00375},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={physics.med-ph}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

